<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940128-1-00125 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940128-1-00006 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
Frequency
1. For finding out the location: each lot or batch.
2. For finding out whether the harvest area is closed: before accepting fish from a new area and after that at least quarterly.
3. For rejecting fish: each lot or batch that does not 
meet the critical limit. 
Critical Limits 
Zero tolerance for fish (i.e., accept no fish) harvested 
from areas closed by foreign, State, or local health authorities 
due to chemical contamination.
Records
A record for each lot or batch that shows the harvest area for the fish. Record may be the receipt from the fisher, if it
shows the harvest area, or it may be a notation on another record of the location of harvest for each lot or batch. The
description of the location should be clear enough to show that the fish were harvested from an area that is open to harvesting.
Longitude and latitude may be necessary (e.g., for open ocean harvesting).
Corrective Actions
Destroy or recall product that fails to meet the critical limit.
Any critical limit deviation should cause a timely assessment by management to: Decide whether the process or HACCP
plan needs changing to reduce the risk of recurrence of the deviation, and to take appropriate followup action.
Option 2
Where the firm receives raw fish, other than molluscan shellfish, directly from the aquacultural or maricultural
producer or from a supplier that has credible knowledge of the harvest area location (e.g., a tender or related company
that pools fish from various aquaculturists), the following applies:
Control Measures
1. Find out the harvest area location for each lot or batch of aquacultured fish.
2. Find out the potential for chemical contamination before receipt of the product. This can be done by obtaining or
reviewing the results of analysis of soil, water, and raw fish samples, as needed. Monitor agricultural and industrial
practices in the aquacultural or maricultural production area.
3. Reject fish that have been grown in an area where uses of agricultural or industrial chemicals are likely to have
caused contamination of the growing and harvesting environment or where soil, water, or fish sample results show
chemical contamination.
Example
ABC Fish Co., which receives pond-raised catfish from the Long River delta area, screens potential pond sites either
directly or by obtaining results of the aquaculturists' analyses of soil and water samples.
The samples are analyzed for pesticides, PCB's, dioxins, and petrochemicals. Either ABC Fish Co. representatives
visit each pond to assess the potential for ongoing chemical contamination, or information is obtained from the U.S.
Department of Agriculture Extension Service about the use of pesticides and herbicides near each pond. Where there
is a potential for pond contamination, annual samples are collected and analyzed for the same contaminants. Fish
that come from contaminated or suspect ponds are rejected.
Frequency
1. For finding out the location: each lot or batch.
2. For learning the potential for contamination: before accepting fish from a new growing area, and annually, after
that if there is a potential for ongoing contamination of the growing area.
3. For rejecting fish: each lot or batch that does not meet the critical limit.
Critical Limits
Zero tolerance for fish (i.e., accept no fish) produced in an area where uses of agricultural or industrial chemicals
are likely to have caused contamination of the growing and harvesting environment.
Records
</TEXT>
</DOC>
