<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940119-0-00034 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940119-0-00009 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
<CFRNO>40 CFR Part 152</CFRNO>
<RINDOCK>[OPP-250091B; FRL-4744-6]</RINDOCK>
Pesticides; Exemption From Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act Requirements for Natural Cedar
Pesticides 
 
<AGENCY>
AGENCY:
 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). 
</AGENCY>
<ACTION>
ACTION:
 Final Rule.
</ACTION>
<SUMMARY>
SUMMARY:
 This rule establishes an exemption from regulation under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act
(FIFRA), for natural cedar pesticides labelled, or for which claims are made, only to repel arthropods other than
ticks, or to retard mildew growth. 
</SUMMARY>
<DATE>
EFFECTIVE DATE:
 March 21, 1994. 
</DATE>
<ADDRESS>
ADDRESSES:
 Written objections, identified by the document control number, [OPP-250091B], must be submitted to: Public
Response and Program Resources Branch, Field Operations Division (7506C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental
Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. In person, bring comments to: Room 1132, CM #2, 1921 Jefferson
Davis Highway, Crystal City, VA 22202. 
</ADDRESS>
<FURTHER>
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
 By mail: Richard F. Mountfort, Registration Division [7505C], Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection
Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. Office location and telephone number: Rm. 713, CM #2, 1921 Jefferson
Davis Highway, Arlington, VA 22202, 703-305-5446. 
</FURTHER>
<SUPPLEM>
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
 
I. Background 
EPA issued a proposed rule, published in the 
Federal Register
 of August 11, 1993 (58 FR 42711) to exempt natural cedar pesticides, labelled, or for which claims are made, only to
repel arthropods other than ticks, or to retard mildew growth, from regulation under FIFRA. The Agency concludes
that use of these pesticides for these purposes poses negligible risks to human health or the environment and that
the burden imposed by regulation is not justified. Accordingly, EPA is establishing this final exemption. Natural
cedar pesticides labelled with claims of repelling ticks or for which claims are made to repel or otherwise mitigate
ticks, are not included in the exemption. Ticks can be vectors of significant diseases affecting humans, and EPA has
not yet fully evaluated whether or not such an exemption is justified. Thus, regulation of such pesticides is appropriate.
This exemption will not apply to any cedarwood product that is treated, combined or impregnated with any additional
substances. EPA has determined that natural cedar itself poses little or no risk and does not pose unreasonable adverse
effects on the environment. However, EPA has not made any such finding for cedar when it is mixed with any other ingredients.
Thus, to qualify for this exemption, the pesticide must only contain natural cedar and cannot contain any inert ingredients.
For example, if cedar is painted or soaked in any substance, it would not qualify for the exemption. Likewise, if cedar
chips or shavings are mixed with other ingredients, the exemption would not apply. Natural cedar products, however,
may be packaged and still qualify for the exemption. 
II. Public Comment and Agency Response
In the proposed rule, the Agency solicited comments on the proposed exemption from regulation of cedar pesticides
labelled for use to repel arthropods (except ticks) or to retard mildew. Six sets of comments were received. Three
commenters supported the proposed rule and three objected to it. EPA also invited suggestions for additional candidates
for consideration for possible future exemption. Two commenters suggested such candidates.
EPA's proposal included the term "chips" to describe the exempted pesticide. American Wood Fibers of Jessup Maryland,
Inc. requested that the word shavings be inserted in the rule in addition to the term chips. Shavings is the term used
more often in the industry. In response to this comment, EPA has added the term "shavings" to the final rule. This
is not a significant change since all forms of cedar products (except cedar oil) were intended to be covered by the exemption.
American Zinc Association and Alltrista Zinc Products Company and Roussel UCLAF Corporation responded to the Agency's
invitation to suggest other low-risk pesticide candidates for exemption from regulation. American Zinc and Alltrista
requested that zinc metal strips used for preventing moss, fungus and mildew on roofs be considered; Roussel UCLAF
Corporation requested review of rotenone.
As noted in the proposal to this exemption, EPA recognizes that there may be other low-risk pesticides that would also
be appropriate for exemption under section 25(b). EPA is currently evaluating existing pesticide registrations
to identify other potential candidates for exemption or reduced regulation. EPA will include in this consideration
the two pesticides, zinc metal strips and rotenone, that were identified as potential candidates in the comments
submitted on the proposed cedarwood exemption. Moroever, as discussed in the proposed exemption, EPA plans to evaluate
whether or not cedar oil extracted from plant parts is appropriate for exemption. EPA also plans to evaluate in the
future whether or not it is appropriate to exempt cedar products for which claims such as "repels ticks" are made.
If EPA determines that any of the above-described exemptions are warranted, EPA will publish a proposed rule on such
exemptions and provide an opportunity for public comment.
The Chlorobenzene Producers Association [CPA]; Excell Products Corporation; and Willert Home Products opposed
the cedarwood exemption. Each are, or represent, producers of alternative products for moth repellence which compete
with cedar products. Their objections and the Agency's response to each are as follows:
1. Consumers will be harmed and cedar competitors placed at a disadvantage if natural cedar pesticides are exempted.
CPA and Excell Products assert that a number of competing products to cedar are produced and distributed by small businesses.
The Agency disagrees that the proposed exemption of natural cedar will result in harm to consumers. As described in
the proposal, the risk to humans or the environment associated with natural cedar is low. The natural oils in the wood
and other plant parts are present at low levels and little exposure to users or the environment is likely. Cedar products
have been sold and widely used for many years with no known health or environmental effects. EPA's regulatory authority
under FIFRA is primarily a licensing authority; every decision has some potential effect on competitors. The Agency
does not consider potential impact on competitors to be a valid and sufficient reason to preclude this exemption.
2. Cedar is ineffective for pest control purposes and cedar companies will be emboldened to make false and misleading
claims without regulatory oversight. Marketing of refresher oils for cedarwood strengthens the impression that
natural cedar is limited or ineffective in pest control.
The Agency is not endorsing the effectiveness of natural cedar as a repellent or for mildew prevention purposes. Because
of the very low risk to man or the environment associated with cedar products, even if the commenters' claims of low
efficacy are true, EPA believes the low risk nature of cedar justifies this exemption. EPA believes the marketplace
is sufficient to suppress ineffective products. The Agency acknowledges that excessive and misleading claims may
be associated with any products exempted from regulation, including cedar products. The Agency does not endorse
or encourage use of excessive or misleading claims for cedar, but believes this is a circumstance where market choices
will restrain abuse and ineffective products.
3. The Agency has already assisted the cedar industry with expedited review procedures.
Expedited review procedures were employed for several cedar registrations in large part because the Agency considered
these pesticides to pose little or no risk to man or the environment. All supporting data for natural cedar products
were waived except descriptions of processing the wood and analyses for oil content. The Agency concludes that the
low risk associated with natural cedar does not justify the cost of regulation, including the reduced costs associated
with the expedited review procedures cited above, for either society or the Agency.
4. This proposal improperly implies that natural substances are safe and synthetics are hazardous.
The Agency agrees that not all natural substances are safe and that not all synthetics are hazardous. Natural cedar,
however, is low-risk for both humans and the environment.
5. The public health risk from exposure to natural cedar may not be negligible; lack of information suggesting risk
does not support a finding of no unreasonable risk. This commenter [CPA] believes the statute requires a finding of
no unreasonable adverse effect on the environment to support the exemption. CPA also concludes that exemption based
on low exposure is inconsistent with prior Agency pesticide policy and that EPA's statutory obligations are not diminished
when a pesticide also has non-pesticidal uses.
The Agency agrees that lack of information, in and of itself, is not sufficient to justify exemption. In the case of
cedar, however, the point is reinforced from many years of distribution and widespread use of cedar with no known adverse
effect. There is very little exposure likely for humans or the environment to the natural oils. Cedarwood oil typically
occurs in cedarwood at low levels and cannot easily be separated from the wood or plant product. Consumers using cedarwood
products are unlikely to be exposed to significant amounts of dust or oil either by inhalation or through the dermal
route. Moreover, EPA believes that cedarwood oil, when used as it naturally occurs in blocks, chips, or other plant
parts, is not expected to result in any significant environmental exposure and cedarwood oil is not known to persist
or bioaccumulate in the environment.
FIFRA section 25(b)(2) authorizes the Administrator to exempt a pesticide if it is determined to be "of a character
which is unnecessary to be subject to this Act in order to carry out the purposes of this Act." Consistent with the comment
from CPA, EPA has determined that cedarwood products, as defined in this rule, pose negligible risks to human health
and the environment and do not pose unreasonable adverse effects on the environment. Thus, EPA has concluded that
these products are of a character which is unnecessary to be subject to the Act. As discussed in the proposal of this
rule, the term unreasonable adverse effect is defined at FIFRA section 2(bb) as "any unreasonable risk to man or the
environment, taking into account the economic, social and environmental costs and benefits of the use of any pesticide."
EPA believes that natural cedar pesticides pose little or no risk to human health or the environment and that the regulatory
burden imposed by registration of these products is not justified by the negligible risk posed by them.
None of the commenters offered any evidence that would contradict this finding. The only evidence of risk presented
was reference to mechanical injury if a child swallowed a small cedar ball. This comment cited a reference in materials
submitted by a cedar registrant to their product and labelling warning to keep the product away from children. The
Agency agrees that any object small enough to swallow should be kept from small children. If the sole risk posed by cedarwood
products is the risk of children swallowing them, that alone is not a sufficient basis for EPA to regulate them under
FIFRA. FIFRA was designed to address the unique concerns presented by pesticides. EPA does not believe that this type
of physical risk, in the absence of any other pesticidal risk, justifies regulation under FIFRA. Other Federal, State
and local authorities exist that could be used to address this type of risk.
The CPA also commented that EPA is required to find that, to be eligible for exemption under FIFRA section 25(b)(2),
a pesticide product satisfies "other objectives" of FIFRA such as meeting statutory criteria for registration
with respect to labeling and composition. In the case of cedar, the Agency concludes that labelling requirements
typically applied to pesticides are not necessary to prevent unreasonable risk to humans, including children (excluding
products with claims involving public health issues). Determinations regarding product composition, labeling
or other aspects of regulatory constraint are unnecessary given the low risk potential.
The Agency disagrees with CPA's assertion that consideration of lack of exposure is inconsistent with prior EPA pesticide
policy. The Agency has previously exempted pheromones citing low exposure as one factor in the decision to exempt
[47 FR 33717].
6. Excell Products Corporation urged that registrations for natural cedar pesticides issued prior to the exemption
not be continued if the exemption is established. They are concerned that this would create a false impression of government
endorsement for the registered articles.
The Agency does not intend to register additional natural cedar pesticides (unless claims for ticks are made _ see
discussions above). It is expected that existing registrations will be voluntarily cancelled after the rule becomes
effective. Registration is never an endorsement of a pesticide.
The low risk associated with pesticidal use of natural cedar does not justify the cost of regulation to society or the
Agency. There is no reason to believe that mis-use or disposal of natural cedar pesticides will increase potential
risk. The Agency concludes that use of natural cedar pesticides as described in the proposed regulation will not cause
unreasonable adverse effects on humans or the environment, whether regulated under FIFRA or not. None of the commenters
offered any evidence that would contradict these conclusions.
This exemption will relieve regulatory burdens for those companies and products consistent with the terms and conditions
described.
In accordance with FIFRA section 25, the FIFRA Science Advisory Panel (SAP) has waived review of the proposed and final
rule. The Secretary of Agriculture waived review of the proposed rule and agreed to waive review of the final rule if
it is the same as the proposed rule. A copy of the final rule was forwarded to the U. S. Department of Agriculture. Copies
of the final rule also were forwarded to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee
on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry of the Senate.
III. Conclusion
The Agency has considered the comments received in response to the proposed rule. Except for the one minor change in
wording, the Agency concludes that the exemption is appropriate. 
IV. Public Docket
The EPA has established a public docket for this rulemaking (OPP-2500091 and 2500091B). All comments received
in response to the proposed and final rule are available in the public docket. The public docket is located at the Virginia
address given under the ADDRESSES section above. 
V. Regulatory Assessment Requirements 
A. Executive Order 12866
Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993), the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action
is "significant" and therefore subject to all the requirements of the Executive Order (i.e., Regulatory Impact
Analysis, review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)). Under section 3(f), the order defines "significant"
as those actions likely to lead to a rule (1) having an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, or adversely
and materially affecting a section of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public safety,
or State, local or tribal governments or communities (also known as "economically significant"); (2) creating
serious inconsistency or otherwise interfering with an action taken or planned by another Agency; (3) materially
altering the budgetary impacts of entitlement, grants, user fees, or loan programs; or (4) raising novel legal or
policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in this Executive
Order.
Under the terms of this Executive Order, EPA has determined that this rule is not "significant" and is therefore
not subject to OMB review. 
B. Regulatory Flexibility Act
This rule has been reviewed under the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-354; 94 Stat.1164, 5 U.S.C.
601 et seq.). EPA has determined that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number
of small businesses, small governments or small organizations given the impacts forecasted pursuant to the analysis
conducted under Executive Order 12866 as set forth above.
Accordingly, I certify that this rule does not require a separate regulatory flexibility analysis under the Regulatory
Flexibility Act. 
C. Paperwork Reduction Act
This rule contains no information collection requirements. Therefore, the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 is not
applicable. 
In accordance with FIFRA section 25, the FIFRA Science Advisory Panel (SAP) has waived review of the proposed and final
rule. A copy of the final rule has been forwarded to the U.S. Department of Agriculture before publication. Copies
of the final rule also were forwarded to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee
on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry of the Senate. 
List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 152
Administrative practice and procedure, Pesticides and pests, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 
Dated: January 10, 1994.
</SUPPLEM>
<SIGNER>
Carol M. Browner,
</SIGNER>
<SIGNJOB>
Administrator.
Therefore, 40 CFR chapter I, part 152 is amended as follows: 
PART 152_[AMENDED]
1. The authority citation continues to read as follows:
Authority:
 7 U.S.C. 136-136y.
2. In Sect.152.25 by adding a new paragraph (f) to read as follows: 
Sect.152.25
 Exemptions for pesticides of a character not requiring FIFRA regulation. 
*  *  *  *  *
(f) 
Natural cedar.
 (1) Natural cedar blocks, chips, shavings, balls, chests, drawer liners, paneling, and needles that meet all of the
following criteria:
(i) The product consists totally of cedarwood or natural cedar.
(ii) The product is not treated, combined, or impregnated with any additional substance(s).
(iii) The product bears claims or directions for use solely to repel arthropods other than ticks or to retard mildew,
and no additional claims are made in sale or distribution. The labeling must be limited to specific arthropods, or
must exclude ticks if any general term such as "arthropods," "insects," "bugs," or any other broad inclusive
term, is used. The exemption does not apply to natural cedar products claimed to repel ticks.
(2) The exemption does not apply to cedar oil, or formulated products which contain cedar oil, other cedar extracts,
or ground cedar wood as part of a mixture. 
</SIGNJOB>
<FRFILING>
[FR Doc. 94-1244 Filed 1-18-94; 8:45 am]
</FRFILING>
<BILLING>
BILLING CODE 6560-50-F
</BILLING>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
