<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940112-1-00035 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940112-1-00016 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
<CFRNO>40 CFR Part 52</CFRNO>
<RINDOCK>[MA-20-01-5783; A-1-FRL-4825-5]</RINDOCK>
Approval and Promulgation of Title V, Section 507, Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental
Compliance Assistance Program for Massachusetts 
<AGENCY>
AGENCY:
 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
</AGENCY>
<ACTION>
ACTION:
 Proposed rule.
</ACTION>
<SUMMARY>
SUMMARY:
 The EPA proposes to conditionally approve the State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision submitted by the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts for the purpose of establishing a small business stationary source technical and environmental
compliance assistance program. The SIP revision was submitted by the State to satisfy the Federal mandate to ensure
that small businesses have access to the technical assistance and regulatory information necessary to comply with
the Clean Air Act (CAA). The rationale for the conditional approval is set forth in this proposal; additional information
is available at the address indicated below.
</SUMMARY>
<DATE>
DATES:
 Comments must be received on or before February 11, 1994.
</DATE>
<ADDRESS>
ADDRESSES:
 Comments may be mailed to Linda M. Murphy, Director, Air, Pesticides and Toxics Management Division, U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, Region I, JFK Federal Bldg., Boston, MA 02203. Copies of the State submittal and EPA's technical
support document are available for public inspection during normal business hours, by appointment at the Air, Pesticides
and Toxics Management Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region I, One Congress Street, 10th floor,
Boston, MA and Department of Environmental Protection, One Winter Street, 8th Floor, Boston, MA 02108.
</ADDRESS>
<FURTHER>
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
 Emanuel Souza, Jr., (617) 565-3248.
</FURTHER>
<SUPPLEM>
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
 
I. Background
 
Implementation of the provisions of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, will require regulation of many small businesses
so that areas may attain and maintain the National ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) and reduce the emission of
air toxics. Small businesses frequently lack the technical expertise and financial resources necessary to evaluate
such regulations and to determine the appropriate mechanisms for compliance. In anticipation of the impact of these
requirements on small businesses, the CAA requires that States adopt a small business stationary source technical
and environmental compliance assistance program (PROGRAM), and submit this PROGRAM as a revision to the federally
approved SIP. In addition, the CAA directs the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to oversee these small business
assistance programs and report to Congress on their implementation. The requirements for establishing a PROGRAM
are set out in section 507 of title V of the CAA. In February 1992, EPA issued 
Guidelines for the Implementation of Section 507 of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments
, in order to delineate the Federal and State roles in meeting the new statutory provisions and as a tool to provide further
guidance to the States on submitting acceptable SIP revisions.
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts has submitted a SIP revision to EPA in order to satisfy the requirements of section
507. In order to gain full approval, the State submittal must provide for each of the following PROGRAM elements: 
(1) The establishment of a small business assistance program (SBAP) to provide technical and compliance assistance
to small businesses; 
(2) The establishment of a State small business ombudsman to represent the interests of small businesses in the regulatory
process; and
(3) The creation of a Compliance Advisory Panel (CAP) to determine and report on the overall effectiveness of the SBAP.
II. Analysis
1. Small Business Assistance Program
Massachusetts' SIP revision delegates the responsibility for implementation of the SBAP to various functional
units within the Executive Office of Environmental Affairs (EOEA) and the Department of Environmental Protection
(DEP). SBAP staff will be located in the Office of Technical Assistance. Primary responsibility for program oversight,
development, and coordination will lie with the small business ombudsman and the SBAP staff.
Section 507(a) sets forth six requirements
1
 that the State must meet to have an approvable SBAP. The first requirement is to establish adequate mechanisms for
developing, collecting and coordinating information concerning compliance methods and technologies for small
business stationary sources, and programs to encourage lawful cooperation among such sources and other persons
to further compliance with the Act. The State has met this requirement by offering a proactive and reactive approach
to gathering and disseminating information on compliance issues and control technologies. This approach includes:
an information clearinghouse, workshops, and an audit program.
<FOOTNOTE>
<FOOTNAME>
1
</FOOTNAME>
A seventh requirement of section 507(a), establishment of an Ombudsman office, is discussed in the next section.
</FOOTNOTE>
The second requirement is to establish adequate mechanisms for assisting small business stationary sources with
pollution prevention and accidental release detection and prevention, including providing information concerning
alternative technologies, process changes, products and methods of operation that help reduce air pollution. The
State has met this requirement by stating that the Massachusetts Office of Technical Assistance (OTA) will provide
help in identifying pollution prevention opportunities. These services are provided at no charge. Additionally,
the SBAP staff will provide small business stationary sources with information and referral to appropriate sources
regarding requirements related to accidental release detection and prevention.
The third requirement is to develop a compliance and technical assistance program for small business stationary
sources which assists small businesses in determining applicable requirements and in receiving permits under the
Act in a timely and efficient manner. The State has met this requirement. As stated earlier, responsibility for the
implementation of the small business assistance program will involve various units within the EOEA and the DEP, with
primary responsibility for program oversight, development, and coordination lying with the small business ombudsman
and SBAP staff in EOEA, Office of Technical Assistance. The air quality staff at each DEP Regional Office will provide
assistance to small business stationary sources in the following: identifying applicable rules, determining their
need for permits, explanation of the permitting procedures, providing the necessary forms and applications, and
assisting them in preparing the required documents.
The fourth requirement is to develop adequate mechanisms to assure that small business stationary sources receive
notice of their rights under the Act in such manner and form as to assure reasonably adequate time for such sources to
evaluate compliance methods and any relevant or applicable proposed or final regulations or standards issued under
the Act. The State has met this requirement by providing that the DEP's Division of Air Quality Control (DAQC) will
be responsible for the development of policies and regulations for implementing the provisions of the CAA. The staff
in that office will provide assistance in identifying applicable rules. Additionally, that office will provide
the necessary information regarding rules and procedures for complying with Federal and state laws and regulations.
Furthermore, it will be the DAQC's responsibility to inform businesses of their rights through brochures and workshops.
The fifth requirement is to develop adequate mechanisms for informing small business stationary sources of their
obligations under the Act, including mechanisms for referring such sources to qualified auditors or, at the option
of the State, for providing audits of the operations of such sources to determine compliance with the Act. The SIP revision
provides that the DAQC is responsible for the development of policies and regulations for implementing the provisions
of the CAA. The SBAP staff will also be responsible for providing audits. These include on-site assessments by the
OTA and through audit referrals. On-site assessments will be arranged in conjunction with technical staff from the
OTA. Audit referrals will be arranged by having the staff provide a list of qualified private sector auditors or consultants
to small business stationary sources.
The sixth requirement is to develop procedures for consideration of requests from a small business stationary source
for modification of: (A) Any work practice or technological method of compliance, or (B) the schedule of milestones
for implementing such work practice or method of compliance preceding any applicable compliance date, based on the
technological and financial capability of any such small business stationary source. The SIP revision provides
that specific regulations for modifications of work practices or technological methods of compliance will be submitted
in November 1993. These regulations will include: (1) Procedures for receiving requests from small businesses to
modify the provisions of State-adopted regulations; (2) format for such requests; (3) procedures for how requests
will be reviewed and acted upon; and (4) requirements to ensure that no such modification may be granted unless it is
in compliance with the applicable requirements of the CAA, the SIP and the applicable Federal regulations.
2. Ombudsman
Section 507(a)(3) requires the designation of a State office to serve as the ombudsman for small business stationary
sources. The State has met this requirement by designating the small business ombudsman within the EOEA. The EOEA
is a secretariat answering directly to the Governor. The designation of a small business ombudsman within the Commonwealth's
environmental secretariat but outside of the secretariat's regulatory agency will:
(1) Enhance impartiality in resolving disputes involving compliance and enforcement;
(2) Reduce potential for conflicts of interest; 
(3) Improve utilization by the business community; 
(4) Allow for a high level of independence, authority, and communication; 
(5) Allow the small business ombudsman to build upon established contacts with the business community and other government
offices and agencies; and 
(6) Strengthen the ombudsman's ability to provide program oversight and evaluation.
3. Compliance Advisory Panel
Section 507(e) requires the State to establish a Compliance Advisory Panel (CAP) that must include two members selected
by the Governor who are not owners or representatives of owners of small businesses; four members selected by the State
legislature who are owners, or represent owners, of small businesses; and one member selected by the head of the agency
in charge of the Air Pollution Permit Program. The State has not fully met this requirement due to the lack of adequate
statutory authority to establish the CAP. However, EPA expects Massachusetts to submit a legislative resolve to
EPA when it is finally approved. The SIP revision provides that legislative approval and selection of CAP members
will be completed by January 30, 1994.
In addition to establishing the minimum membership of the CAP the CAA delineates four responsibilities for it: (1)
To render advisory opinions concerning the effectiveness of the SBAP, difficulties encountered and the degree and
severity of enforcement actions; (2) to periodically report to EPA concerning the SBAP's adherence to the principles
of the Paperwork Reduction Act, the Equal Access to Justice Act, and the Regulatory Flexibility Act
2
; (3) to review and assure that information for small business stationary sources is easily understandable; and (4)
to develop and disseminate the reports and advisory opinions made through the SBAP. The State has met these requirements
in the SIP revision by authorizing the panel to: render advisory opinions on the effectiveness of the small business
assistance program; prepare periodic reports to EPA on the status of the SBAP with regard to the Paper Work Reduction
Act, the Regulatory Flexibility Act, and the Equal Access to Justice Act; and review information for small business
stationary sources to assure such information is understandable by the layperson. Additionally, the SIP revisions
provide the small business ombudsman with the authority to oversee all aspects of the SBAP and allows for the ombudsman
to act as secretariat to the panel.
<FOOTNOTE>
<FOOTNAME>
2
</FOOTNAME>
Section 507(e)(1)(B) requires the CAP to report on the compliance of the SBAP with these three Federal statutes. However,
since State agencies are not required to comply with them, EPA believes that the State PROGRAM must merely require
the CAP to report on whether the SBAP is adhering to the general principles of these Federal statutes.
</FOOTNOTE>
4. Eligibility
Section 507(c)(1) of the CAA defines the term "small business stationary source" as a stationary source that:
(A) Is owned or operated by a person who employs 100 or fewer individuals, 
(B) Is a small business concern as defined in the Small Business Act; 
(C) Is not a major stationary source; 
(D) Does not emit 50 tons per year (tpy) or more of any regulated pollutant; and 
(E) Emits less than 75 tpy of all regulated pollutants. 
The SIP revision states that it is the general policy of the EOEA and the DEP to assist all businesses in identifying
applicable regulations and in meeting their obligations under the requirements of the CAA. However, recognizing
the special needs of the small business stationary sources, EOEA and DEP shall, wherever resources become a limiting
factor in providing such assistance, give priority to businesses which meet the definition of small business stationary
source under title V, section 507(c)(1) of the Clean Air Act. Additionally, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts allows
businesses that do not meet the provisions of sections 507(c)(1)(C)-(E) to petition the SBAP for assistance in accordance
with the procedures established in section 507(c)(2) of the CAA.
The SBAP staff, with the advice of the ombudsman and the CAP, may consider the development of provisions for excluding
any category or subcategory of sources with sufficient financial and technical resources, from receiving assistance
under the SBAP in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
III. Proposed Action 
 
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts has submitted a SIP revision implementing each of the required PROGRAM elements
required by section 507 of the CAA. The State expects all the elements of the PROGRAM to be fully operational by November
14, 1994. 
The State needs full adequate legal authority to implement the PROGRAM before EPA can fully approve this SIP revision.
Therefore, EPA is proposing to conditionally approve the Massachusetts SIP revision for the small business stationary
source technical and environmental compliance assistance program, which was submitted on November 13, 1993 upon
the condition that Massachusetts submits the additional legal authority necessary to fully implement the PROGRAM.
EPA is soliciting public comments on the issues discussed in this proposal or on other relevant matters. These comments
will be considered before EPA takes final action. Interested parties may participate in the Federal rulemaking procedure
by submitting written comments to the EPA Regional office listed in the 
Addresses
 section of this action.
Proposed Action
EPA is proposing to conditionally approve the small business stationary source technical and environmental compliance
assistance program submitted on November 13, 1992 and July 22, 1993. The one outstanding issue with this SIP revision
concerns Massachusetts' lack of adequate legal authority to establish and implement a compliance advisory panel.
The State plans to address this issue in a legislative resolve which it will forward to EPA by November 14, 1994. For
this reason EPA is proposing to conditionally approve this SIP revision on the condition that the State meet its commitment
to submit a legislative resolve allowing a compliance panel to be established and implemented, incorporating all
the elements listed in section 507(e) of the Clean Air Act and have the program fully operational by November 14, 1994.
Under section 110(k)(4) of the Act, EPA may conditionally approve a plan based on a commitment from the State to adopt
specific enforceable measures by a date certain, but not later than 1 year from the date of approval. If EPA takes final
conditional approval on the commitment, the State must meet its commitment to have the program fully operational
by November 14, 1994. If the State fails to do so, this approval will become a disapproval on that date. EPA will notify
the State by letter that this action has occurred. At that time, this commitment will no longer be a part of the approved
Massachusetts SIP. EPA subsequently will publish a notice in the notice section of the 
Federal Register
 notifying the public that the conditional approval automatically converted to a disapproval. If the State meets
its commitment, within the applicable time frame, the conditionally approved submission will remain a part of the
SIP until EPA takes final action approving or disapproving the new legislative authority. If EPA disapproves the
new submittal, the conditionally approved small business program will also be disapproved at that time. If EPA approves
the submittal, the small business program will be fully approved in its entirety and replace the conditionally approved
program in the SIP.
If EPA determines that it cannot issue a final conditional approval or if the conditional approval is converted to
a disapproval, such action will trigger EPA's authority to impose sanctions under section 110(m) of the CAA at the
time EPA issues the final disapproval or on the date the State fails to meet its commitment. In the latter case, EPA will
notify the State by letter that the conditional approval has been converted to a disapproval and that EPA's sanctions
authority has been triggered. In addition, the final disapproval triggers the Federal implementation plan (FIP)
requirement under section 110(c). Pursuant to section 507(b)(3), EPA will provide for implementation of the program
provisions required under section 507(a)(4) in any State that fails to submit such a program under that subsection.
Therefore, EPA would have to provide for a compliance assistance program which assists small business stationary
sources in determining applicable requirements and in receiving permits under the CAA.
 This action has been classified as a Table 2 Action by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in
the 
Federal Register
 on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214-2225) as revised by an October 4, 1993, memorandum from Michael H. Shapiro, Acting
Assistant Administer for Air and Radiation. On January 6, 1989 the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) waived Table
2 and 3 SIP revisions (54 FR 2222) from the requirement of section 3 of Executive Order 12291 for a period of two years.
EPA has submitted a request for a permanent waiver for Table 2 and Table 3 SIP revisions. The OMB has agreed to continue
the waiver until such time as it rules on EPA's request. This request continues in effect under Executive Order 12866
which superseded Executive Order 12291 on September 30, 1993.
Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 
et seq.
, EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities.
5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial
number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government
entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000.
 By today's action, EPA is conditionally approving a State program created for the purpose of assisting small businesses
in complying with existing statutory and regulatory requirements. The program being proposed for conditional approval
today does not impose any new regulatory burden on small businesses; it is a program under which small businesses may
elect to take advantage of assistance provided by the state. Therefore, because the EPA's conditional approval of
this program does not impose any new regulatory requirements on small businesses, I certify that it does not have a
significant economic impact on any small entities affected.
The Regional Administrator's decision to approve or disapprove the SIP revision will be based on whether it meets
the requirements of sections 110(a)(2)(A)-(K) and 110(a)(3) of the Clean Air Act, as amended, and EPA regulations
in 40 CFR part 51.
List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52
Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Intergovernmental relations, Small business assistance program.
Authority:
 42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q.
Dated: December 21, 1993.
</SUPPLEM>
<SIGNER>
Paul G. Keough,
</SIGNER>
<SIGNJOB>
Acting Regional Administrator, Region I.
</SIGNJOB>
<FRFILING>
[FR Doc. 94-760 Filed 1-11-94; 8:45 am]
</FRFILING>
<BILLING>
BILLING CODE 6560-50-F
</BILLING>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
