<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940106-1-00129 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940106-1-00014 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
Longfin smelt disappeared from the Humboldt Bay estuary in the 1980s (Barnhart, pers. comm., 1993), perhaps as a result
of a dramatic loss of intertidal marsh habitat, which may have reduced productivity levels to a point at which they
could no longer support the species. In addition, the loss of freshwater flows from the Mad River, as a result of water
diversions and land reclamation, may have contributed to the loss of this species from the Humboldt Bay. 
Longfin smelt may be particularly sensitive to adverse habitat alterations or to stochastic events because their
2-year life cycle increases the likelihood of extinction after consecutive periods of reproductive failure due
to drought or other factors. Relatively brief periods of reproductive failure could lead to extirpations. 
The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past,
present, and future threats faced by this species in this determination. This species does not appear to be threatened
throughout all or a significant portion of its range or likely to become so in the foreseeable future. However, given
the declines in the southern portion of the species' range and the general lack of population trend data for the remainder
of its range, the Service will include the longfin smelt in category 2 of the next notice of review for animals. 
Though the petition was not limited to a portion of the species' range, the petitioner focused on the resident longfin
smelt in the Sacramento-San Joaquin River estuary population. In telephone conversations, the petitioner indicated
that he was most interested in a population listing. Longfin smelt numbers in this estuary have declined by 90 percent
since 1984 and by 50 percent annually since 1987. 
The Service has listed vertebrate population segments where the entity being listed represented the entire coterminous
United States population (e.g., marbled murrelet, grizzly bear). Some reproductively isolated (or nearly so) vertebrate
population segments that are clearly important to the conservation of an entire species have also been listed under
the Act (e.g., Mojave population of the desert tortoise, coastal population of the western snowy plover). 
Although the longfin smelt reportedly is unable to swim between estuaries (Moyle, pers. comm., 1993), unverified
reports of offshore collections exist (Quirollo, pers. comm., 1993; Wing, pers. comm., 1993). Furthermore, the
current distribution is thought to be the result of movements between estuaries that took place during the Pleistocene
when lower sea levels reportedly would have enlarged estuaries along the Pacific coast and shortened the inter-estuarian
distances (Moyle, pers. comm., 1993). Though geographically removed from the closest known extirpated or declining
population (300 miles from the Eel River in California), this isolation does not necessarily indicate that the Sacramento-San
Joaquin River estuary population is significant to a species that has a range of more than 1,900 miles. In addition,
electrophoretic analysis revealed that the accumulated number of codon substitutions per locus (i.e., Nei's genetic
distance) since the time of separation of the Sacramento-San Joaquin River estuary population and the longfin population
in Lake Washington, Washington, connected to Puget Sound via a system of locks, has been small (0.005 according to
Stanley 
et al., 
submitted to 
Copeia
). Thus, these populations, separated by approximately 1,000 miles, have genetically diverged only slightly since
their separation. 
The Sacramento-San Joaquin River estuary is clearly an important and significant wetland ecosystem. The longfin
smelt formerly was the fourth most abundant fish in the Sacramento-San Joaquin River estuary; however, the role of
this declining species in the estuary today is unknown. 
Based on this evaluation the Service has determined that the listing of the longfin smelt under the Act is not warranted
at this time. The listing of the Sacramento-San Joaquin River estuary population of the longfin smelt is also not warranted
at this time. 
References 
A complete list of references used in the preparation of this finding is available from the Associate Manager_Endangered
Species, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Portland, Oregon (see 
ADDRESSES 
section). 
Authority 
The authority for this action is the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 
et seq.
). 
List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 17 
Endangered and threatened species, Exports, Imports, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and Transportation.
Dated: December 22, 1993.
<SIGNER>
Richard N. Smith,
</SIGNER>
<SIGNJOB>
Acting Director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
</SIGNJOB>
<FRFILING>
[FR Doc. 94-92 Filed 1-5-94; 8:45 am]
</FRFILING>
<BILLING>
BILLING CODE 4310-55-P
</BILLING>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
