<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940128-1-00126 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940128-1-00006 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
Record that shows the production area for each lot of raw material. Records describing the assessed risk of chemical
contamination for all producers.
Corrective Actions
Destroy or recall product that fails to meet the critical limit.
Any critical limit deviation should cause a timely assessment by management to: Learn whether the process or HACCP
plan needs modification to reduce the risk of recurrence of the deviation, and take appropriate followup action.
Option 3
Where the firm receives fish, other than molluscan shellfish, from someone other than the fisher, aquacultural producer,
or a supplier that has credible knowledge of the harvest area location (e.g., a transportation company that pools
fish from various fishers or aquaculturists), the following applies:
Control Measures
1. Periodically monitor the incoming fish for environmentally persistent organochlorine pesticides which have
the potential to be present in the fish. These should include, but are not limited to: DDT and its degradation products
(DDE, TDE), chlordane, and heptachlor, also similar chlorinated industrial chemicals, such as PCB's and dioxins.
Sampling should represent all suppliers (i.e., three samples per supplier per year).
2. Reject all shipments from suppliers that provide fish that exceed the critical limits unless convincing evidence
can be obtained that only acceptable harvest or growing areas are now being used.
Example
ABC Fish Co. receives brown shrimp from an interstate seafood transportation company. The carrier, which buys the
shrimp directly from the fishers, makes no effort to learn the harvest location. ABC Fish Co. collects three samples
per supplier per year and sends them to a contract laboratory for pesticide screening. When positive test results
are obtained, the firm stops using that supplier.
Frequency
1. For sampling incoming fish: three times per supplier per year.
2. For rejecting fish: each lot or batch that does not meet the critical limit.
 Critical Limits
All limits are for the edible portion of the fish product, and are based on wet weight:
&bull;Aldrin plus dieldrin, chlordane, endrin, heptachlor plus heptachlor epoxide, and chlordecone (Kepone
TM
): 0.3 ppm in edible portion (except chlordecone in crabmeat 0.4 parts per million(ppm)) (CPG 7141.01);
&bull;DDT plus TDE plus DDE: 5 ppm (CPG 7141.01);
&bull;Mirex: 0.1 ppm (CPG 7141.01);
&bull;Toxaphene: 5.0 ppm in edible portion (CPG 7141.01);
&bull;PCB's: 2 ppm [CPG 7108.19 and CFR 109. 30 (A)];
&bull;Methyl mercury: 1 ppm (CPG 7108.07).
Records
Records of analytical results from the firm's own laboratory or contract laboratory(s).
Corrective Actions
Destroy or recall product that fails to meet the critical limit.
Any critical limit deviation should cause a timely assessment by management to: Learn whether the process or HACCP
plan needs changing to reduce the risk of recurrence of the deviation, and take appropriate followup action.
Option 4
Where the firm receives inshell molluscan shellfish, the following applies:
Control Measures
1. Find out the harvest area location from the harvester's tag on the containers of shellfish for each lot or batch of
shellfish.
2. Check the harvester's state commercial fishing license or compare the dealer's certification number to those
listed in the most current edition of the "Interstate Certified Shellfish Shippers List (ICSSL)." If the dealer
is not listed, check for certification with the SSCA or equivalent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
