<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940202-0-00032 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940202-0-00005 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
(
5
) A description of the unspecified methods that were considered and an explanation of why they were not selected;
(
6
) A description of the controlled transactions (including the terms of sale) and any internal data used to analyze
those transactions;
(
7
) A description of the comparables that were used, how comparability was evaluated, and what (if any) adjustments
were made;
(
8
) An explanation of the economic analysis and projections relied upon in developing the method; and
(
9
) A general index of the principal and background documents and a description of the recordkeeping system used for
cataloging and accessing those documents.
(C) 
Background documents.
 The assumptions, conclusions, and positions contained in principal documents ordinarily will be based on, and supported
by, additional background documents. Documents that support the principal documentation may include the documents
listed in Sect.1.6038A-3(c) that are not otherwise described in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(B) of this section.
Every document listed in those regulations may not be relevant to pricing determinations under the taxpayer's specific
facts and circumstances and, therefore, each of those documents need not be maintained in all circumstances. Moreover,
other documents not listed in those regulations may be necessary to establish that the taxpayer's method was selected
and applied in the way that provided the most accurate measure of an arm's length result under the principles of the
best method rule in Sect.1.482-1T(b)(2)(iii). Background documents need not be provided to the Internal
Revenue Service in response to a request for principal documents. If the Internal Revenue Service subsequently requests
background documents, a taxpayer must provide that documentation to the Internal Revenue Service within 30 days
of the request. However, the district director may, in his discretion, extend the period for producing the background
documentation.
(3) 
Application of an unspecified method
_(i) 
In general.
 An adjustment is excluded from the calculation of a net section 482 adjustment if the taxpayer establishes that both
the unspecified method and documentation requirements of this paragraph (d)(3) are met with respect to that amount.
(ii) 
Unspecified method requirement
_(A) 
In general.
 If a method other than a specified method was applied, the unspecified method requirement is met if the requirements
of paragraph (d)(3)(ii) (B) or (C), as appropriate, are met.
(B) 
Specified method potentially applicable.
 If the transaction is of a type for which methods are specified in the regulations under section 482, then a taxpayer
will be considered to have met the unspecified method requirement if the taxpayer reasonably concludes that, given
the available data, none of the specified methods was likely to provide an accurate measure of an arm's length result,
and that it selected and applied an unspecified method in a way that would likely provide an accurate measure of an arm's
length result, given the available data. This conclusion must be based on all the facts and circumstances. The factors
relevant to this conclusion include those set forth in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section.
(C) 
No specified method applicable.
 If the transaction is of a type for which no methods are specified in the regulations under section 482, then a taxpayer
will be considered to have met the unspecified method requirement if it selected and applied an unspecified method
in a reasonable manner. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(C), a taxpayer's selection and application is
reasonable if the taxpayer reasonably concludes that the method (and its application of that method) provided the
most accurate measure of an arm's length result under the principles of the best method rule in Sect.1.482-1T(b)(2)(iii).
This conclusion must be based on all the facts and circumstances. The factors relevant to this conclusion include
those set forth in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section.
(iii) 
Documentation requirement
_(A) 
In general.
 The documentation requirement of this paragraph (d)(3) is met if the taxpayer maintains sufficient documentation
to establish that the unspecified method requirement of paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section is met and provides
that documentation to the Internal Revenue Service within 30 days of a request for it. That documentation must be in
existence when the return is filed. The district director may, in his discretion, excuse a minor or inadvertent failure
to provide required documents, but only if the taxpayer has made a good faith effort to comply, and the taxpayer promptly
remedies the failure when it becomes known.
(B) 
Principal and background documents.
 See paragraphs (d)(2)(iii) (B) and (C) of this section for rules regarding these two categories of required documentation.
(4) 
Certain foreign to foreign transactions.
 For purposes of calculating a net section 482 adjustment, any increase in taxable income resulting from an allocation
under section 482 that is attributable to any controlled transaction solely between foreign corporations will be
excluded unless the treatment of that transaction affects the determination of either corporation's income from
sources within the United States or taxable income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within
the United States.
(5) 
Special rule.
 If the regular tax (as defined in section 55(c)) imposed on the taxpayer is determined by reference to an amount other
than taxable income, that amount shall be treated as the taxable income of the taxpayer for purposes of section 6662(e)(3).
Accordingly, for taxpayers whose regular tax is determined by reference to an amount other than taxable income, the
increase in that amount resulting from section 482 allocations is the taxpayer's net section 482 adjustment.
(6) 
Examples.
 The principles of this paragraph (d) are illustrated by the following examples.
Example 1.
 (i) The Internal Revenue Service makes the following section 482 adjustments for the taxable year:
</TEXT>
</DOC>
