<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940110-1-00042 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940110-1-00005 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
In determining whether an alien entrepreneur has demonstrated that he or she invested in good faith, the Service will
examine his or her intent based on both objective and subjective standards. The following example illustrates the
"good faith" analysis. An entrepreneur invests $600,000 in a non-targeted employment area prior to obtaining
conditional residence, but is unable to provide the additional capital as envisioned in the Form I-526 application.
At the time he or she obtained conditional residence, he or she had no realistic prospect of obtaining funds to meet
the capital investment requirement and in fact is unable to acquire the additional $400,000 required to complete
the investment. Even though the entrepreneur sincerely wished to make the investment succeed, under the objective
part of the good faith analysis, the entrepreneur will be unable to establish that he or she substantially met the capital
investment requirement in good faith.
This rule also permits the director for good cause to remove conditions for the spouse and/or unmarried minor children
of a deceased principal alien entrepreneur. If the spouse and/or children can show that, despite the entrepreneur's
death, the requirements for removal of conditions have been met, the director may approve the petition and remove
the conditions. This procedure makes humanitarian as well as economic sense and fufills the goals of the statute in
that the economy of the United States will have benefited in the manner sought by Congress notwithstanding the death
of the principal entrepreneur.
Other Reasons for Termination
The statute calls for termination of the alien's conditional permanent residence status during the two-year period
if the Service determines: That establishment of the new commercial enterprise was for the sole purpose of evading
United States immigration laws; that the new commercial enterprise in fact was not established; that the alien did
not invest or was not in the process of investing the prescribed capital; that the alien was not sustaining the new commercial
enterprise or the investment of capital; or that the alien was not otherwise conforming to the requirements of the
status (section 216A(b)(1) of the Act). If the Service determines any of the foregoing, the alien's status will be
terminated and an order to show cause will be issued. The alien may request review of this decision in deportation proceedings.
In such proceedings, the burden of proof will rest with the Service to establish by a preponderance of the evidence
that one of the foregoing reasons for termination is true.
Termination will also result, and an order to show cause will be issued, if the alien enterpreneur fails to file the
required petition for removal of conditions or, without good cause, fails to appear for a personal interview when
requested by the Service (section 216A(c)(2) of the Act). The decision may be reviewed in deportation proceedings,
but, in either instance, the burden will rest with the alien to show compliance with the filing and interview requirments.
The Service may accept and consider a late petition if the alien demonstrates good cause and extenuating circumstances
for having failed to file a timely petition. Furthermore, the Service may stay deportation proceedings and consider
a petition for an alien who is the subject of deportation proceedings for failure to file a timely petition if the alien
demonstrates good cause and extenuating circumstances.
Finally, the legislative history of this provision at S. Rep. No. 101-55, 101st Cong., 1st Sess. 21 (1989) indicates
Congress's wish that "* * * processing of an individual visa not continue if it becomes known to the
Government that the money invested was obtained by the alien through other than legal means (such as money received
through the sale of illegal drugs)." This position is clearly part of Congress's general policy to penalize one who
prospers as a result of an illegal enterprise. That policy is evidenced elsewhere in the federal law, such as the statute
which defines money laundering crimes as aggravated felonies, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(43), and the provisions of the United
States Code which provide for the forfeiture of proceeds of unlawful activities to the United States, 21 U.S.C. 881(a)(6)
(forfeiture of proceeds of controlled substance exchange) and 18 U.S.C. 1963(a)(3) (forfeiture of proceeds of racketeering
activity or unlawful debt collection). In light of Congress's specific statement of intent with regard to this provision,
and its overall policy concerning proceeds from illegal activities, termination of status will result at any time
during the two-year conditional residence period or at the time a petition for removal of conditions is filed, if the
Service determines that the alien's investment funds have been obtained through other than legal means.
Application Fee
In accordance with Office of Management and Budget Circular A-25, 
User Charges,
 "user charges will be sufficient to recover the full cost to the Federal Government * * * of providing
the service * * *. Full cost shall be determined or estimated from the best available records of the
agency * * *." The Service proposes to institute an application fee of $90.00 for filing form I-829.
This fee is based on the estimated costs of processing the petition.
The I-829 fee will be one of many examinations fees assessed for providing adjudication and naturalization
services. Each examinations fee has three components: Direct costs, indirect costs, and a surcharge to cover the
costs of the International Affairs and Outreach Program (formerly the Refugees and Overseas Program).
Direct costs are those costs directly related to the processing of a particular application form for a particular
benefit. Generally, direct costs include: The pay of the adjudications officers and clerical staff working on each
type of application and the costs of their associated personnel benefits; the costs of Federal Bureau of Investigation
name and fingerprint checks; where applicable, the costs by application of naturalization ceremonies conducted
by the United States Courts; and the costs of INS immigration document and card production. The pay costs are calculated
by multiplying average adjudications processing time by the hourly pay for the average grade level of adjudicators
and clerks. For the I-829, the direct costs include the pay costs of the adjudications officers and clerical
staff and the costs of producing the Alien Registration Card.
Indirect costs are defined as the costs of supervisory, management, and administrative activities, related staff
training, records, data processing, files services, legal services, and space and support costs of providing immigration
benefits under the Immigration and Nationality Act and related statutes. Indirect costs also include costs in the
management and administration portion of the INS budget, such as the costs of personnel administration work needed
to recruit and pay the officers and clerks who process customers' applications for benefits. The activities associated
with these costs are no less essential to providing INS services to its customers than are the direct costs. These indirect
costs are distinguished only by the somewhat greater complexity of determining the portion of such costs that are
attributable to work done for fee-paying customers.
The costs to carry out the International Affairs and Outreach Program are borne by the Examinations Fee Account, at
the direction of Congress. See section 286(m) of the Act. These costs are treated as a surcharge that is added to the
examinations fees.
The total cost of processing the I-829 is estimated at $90.45. The proposed fee was determined by rounding the
total cost to the nearest $5.00. As the Service gains experience in processing this new application, the fee will be
adjusted as necessary based on improved data.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
