<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940105-2-00108 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940105-2-00050 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
The escalation/mitigation factors for the violations in Section II were applied consistent with the Policy. Regarding
the "multiple examples" factor, the violations both involved the failure to meet the specific objective that each
administration is in accordance with the written directive. The QMP was inadequate in that it did not contain procedures
that provide high confidence in the delivery process of therapeutic radiation and the accurate administration of
the prescribed dose. The administering physician's inattention to detail was the root cause and primary contributing
reason for the occurrence of both misadministrations at the facility within a short period. In violation II.A, the
physician failed to observe that one of four sources fell into the patient's bed, while in violation II.B, the physician
failed to use any visual means to verify correct insertion of the sources. Had either physician paid adequate attention
while inserting the sources, or if the Licensee's QMP had provided specific procedures to verify correct source insertion,
these violations would likely have been averted. Therefore, based on the fact that both events were due to the same
root cause, escalation on this factor was warranted.
With respect to the "prior performance" factor, while there is no history in the quality management area given its
recent implementation, the Licensee's poor and declining overall performance in the radiation safety area of the
medical program warrants escalation of the penalty on this factor, as set forth above.
Regarding the "identification" factor, the NRC maintains that, while the two misadministrations were self disclosing,
the associated quality management violations were identified by the NRC. In both events, the Licensee did not identify
the failure of the QMP to include written policies and procedures to meet the objective that each brachytherapy administration
is verified to be to the proper treatment site in accordance with the respective written directive. In each case, the
NRC identified the failure to establish adequate written procedures to ensure the Licensee's proper placement of
brachytherapy source(s) at the prescribed treatment site. Therefore, on balance, no adjustment by the NRC on this
factor was warranted.
With respect to the "corrective action" factor, the actions taken in response to these violations were not considered
sufficiently prompt and comprehensive to warrant mitigation because they were initially narrowly focused on the
specific events, rather than on root causes, the QMP and improvements necessary to increase management oversight.
The Licensee did implement additional training and instruction in the loading and placement of brachytherapy sources
and applicators. However, the Licensee did not perform an extensive and comprehensive root cause analysis of the
two misadministrations. The corrective actions were narrowly focused and primarily directed at the performance
of visual checks and examinations of the sources and applicators before implantation. The corrective actions did
not include a comprehensive review of the QMP procedures to determine what written modifications might be necessary
to ensure compliance with the failed objective and program areas of concern. Additionally, the corrective actions
failed to address what changes in management oversight and involvement would be incorporated into the Licensee's
QMP to prevent recurrence of similar events and improve supervision of brachytherapy activities. Following the
second event and discussions with NRC, a more comprehensive approach was adopted. However, on balance, no adjustment
on this factor is warranted.
NRC Conclusion
The NRC concludes that the Licensee has not provided an adequate basis for mitigating any portion of the civil penalties.
Accordingly, the NRC has determined that monetary civil penalties in the amount of $10,000 should be imposed.
<FRFILING>
[FR Doc. 94-125 Filed 1-4-94; 8:45 am]
</FRFILING>
<BILLING>
BILLING CODE 7590-01-M
</BILLING>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
