<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940127-2-00107 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940127-2-00071 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
The second provision of rule G-19 that is removed by the proposed rule change provides that a dealer, notwithstanding
its determination that a transaction is not suitable for a customer, may, after so informing the customer of this,
nevertheless respond to the customer's requests for investment advice and execute transactions at the direction
of the customer. This "notwithstanding" provision allows dealers to recommend specific municipal securities
to investors who want to invest in municipal securities even after being informed by the dealer that, based on their
financial circumstances, investments in municipal securities would not be suitable. While there have been no reported
problems associated with this provision, the Board, nevertheless, believed that this exemptive provision also
should be deleted to strengthen the suitability rule.
The Board also reviewed and clarified the customer data inquiries that are necessary for non-institutional and institutional
accounts. For non-institutional (
i.e.
, retail) accounts, the proposed rule change clarifies that dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain the following
information: the customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives and such other information used
or considered to be reasonable and necessary by the dealer in making recommendations to the customer. For some institutional
customers, however, these specific information requests may not be appropriate. For example, the "tax status"
of a tax-exempt bond fund generally is not relevant to a suitability determination. Therefore, the proposed rule
change does not provide a specific list of items that must be requested from all institutional accounts, but does state
that dealers must obtain appropriate and sufficient data from each institutional customer to make a suitability
determination for each transaction that is recommended (as also is required for non-institutional accounts).
Finally, the proposed rule change revises the definition of "institutional account" contained in rule G-8.
This definition is used in rule G-19, by cross-reference. This amendment would make the Board's definition
of institutional account the same as the National Association of Securities Dealers' ("NASD") definition for
purposes of suitability determinations. Accounts that do not qualify as "institutional accounts" (
i.e.
, retail accounts) would be subject to the specific information inquiries described above.
The Board believes the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act which provides that
the Board's rules:
be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles
of trade * * * to remove impediments and to perfect the mechanism of a free and open market in municipal
securities, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest.
The Board believes that the proposed rule change will protect investors and the public interest because it is designed
to ensure that dealers, before making a recommendation to a customer, make a determination that the municipal securities
transaction is suitable.
B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition
Because the proposed rule change will have an equal impact on all dealers, the Board believes that the proposed rule
change will not have any impact on competition.
C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants,
or Others
September 1992 Request for Comments
In September 1992, as part of the Board's general review of customer protection measures, the Board requested comment
on potential problem areas in the municipal securities market and suggestions for how customer protection could
be improved. Specific questions were asked about the effectiveness of rule G-19 and the Board obtained various
comments on the "not unsuitable" provision of rule G-19 from Merrill Lynch, North American Securities Administrators
Association, Barre & Co., Griffen, Kubik, Stephens & Thompson, and the Public Securities Association.
While some of these commentators at that time believed that the "not unsuitable" provision should be deleted, other
commentators believed it should be retained because some customers do not wish to provide certain information about
themselves. Specifically, two commentators believed that removing the provision would not be a problem and would
make the Board's rule consistent with normal practice in other securities markets. Three commentators noted that
some customers do not want to provide their financial information to a dealer. One of those commentators indicated,
however, that "in the vast majority of cases, dealers do routinely obtain information for each customer account
reflecting net worth, income level and investment objectives."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
