<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940126-2-00101 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940126-2-00055 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
(1) A concise description of the benefits of the vaccine, 
(2) A concise description of the risks associated with the vaccine, 
(3) A statement of the availability of the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program, and 
(4) Such other relevant information as may be determined by the Secretary. 
New vaccine information materials which comply with the provisions of the revised section 2126 have been drafted
and are contained in this Notice. We invite comment on these draft information materials. During the 60-day comment
period, CDC also intends to consult with the Advisory Commission on Childhood Vaccines, health care provider and
parent organizations, and the Food and Drug Administration, as mandated under section 2126. 
CDC intends to repeal the vaccine information materials currently contained in Appendix A of 42 CFR part 110 when the
new vaccine information materials developed under the revised section 2126 of the PHS Act, as revised by Public Law
103-183, are finalized. 
CDC invites written comment on the following proposed vaccine information materials, entitled "Diphtheria, Tetanus,
and Pertussis Vaccine (DTP): What You Need to Know Before Your Child Gets the Vaccine," "Measles, Mumps, and Rubella
Vaccine (MMR): What You Need to Know Before Your Child Gets the Vaccine," "Polio Vaccine: What You Need to Know Before
Your Child Gets the Vaccine," and "Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccine (Td): What You Need to Know Before You Get the Vaccine."
Diphtheria, Tetanus, and Pertussis Vaccine (DTP): What You Need to Know Before Your Child Gets the Vaccine
 
What Are Diphtheria, Tetanus, and Pertussis? 
DTP vaccine (DTP) is named for 3 diseases: Diphtheria, Tetanus, and Pertussis. Each of these diseases can lead to serious
problems, even death. Your child can be protected from diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis by the vaccine. These diseases_especially
pertussis_are still found in our country, mostly because some people do not get enough doses of the vaccines. 
Diphtheria is spread from person to person. It can cause a membrane to form in the nose, throat, or airway. Diphtheria
can cause breathing problems, heart failure, or paralysis. 
Tetanus, also called lockjaw, is caused by a germ that enters the body through a cut or wound. Tetanus causes serious,
painful spasms of all muscles, "locking" of the jaw so the sick person cannot open his mouth or swallow, and death.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
