<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940127-2-00201 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940127-2-00112 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
In response to requests to Program Directors and Federal regulatory agencies, as stipulated in the authorizing legislation
for the Program, section 1668 of Pub. L. 101-624, the following specific areas of risk assessment research have
been identified as priorities for this year:
_The bidirectional rates, mechanisms and impact of gene transfer between currently genetically transformable
crop species and existing North American wild relatives of those crops including studies of methods of mitigation
of potential gene exchange. Species specifically identified by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service include
rye, oats, barley, sorghum and turfgrasses. Research could rely on reanalysis of published information and/or laboratory/filed
studies.
_The potential for recombination between plant viruses and plant-encoded nocapsid viral genes (e.g. replicase),
especially for those viruses in supergroup B (carmovirus, tombusvirus, luteovirus, sobemovirus). Such studies
should identify recombination potentials and, if demonstrated, define frequencies and effect on symptom expression.
_The potential for plants to express nonviral genes using noncoding regulatory sequences (promoters, translational
enhancers, termination sequences) derived from plant viruses that naturally infect the plants (e.g. cauliflower
mosaic virus and Brassica supp.). The potential for changes in expression of introduced genes or other aspects of
host physiology when the transgenic plant becomes infected with plant viruses, especially those from which the noncoding
sequence was derived or related viruses.
_Changes in viral host ranges or the types of insects which can serve as viral vectors due to the use of transgenic plants
expressing viral genes.
_The potential for nontarget effects of plant-defense compounds expressed in genetically modified plant-associated
microorganisms (e.g., compounds in phyllosphere or rhizosphere-inhabiting bacteria) or in plants (e.g., 
Bacillus thuringiensis 
delta endotoxin), especially in regard to persistence of the organisms and material in the environment.
_Identification of the minimal gene sequence(s) in an animal pathogen which could confer pathogencity on a nonpathogenic
organism. Pathogenic organisms specially identified by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service as being
of interest are Marek's disease virus, laryngo tracheitis virus, bovine leukemia virus, eastern equine encephalomyelitis
virus, bovine diarrhea virus, Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae and Haemophilus somnus.
Note: 
Individual investigators whose research projects are funded under the Program will be required to attend and present
data on results of their research at an Annual Conference. Attendance costs at such a conference do not need to be included
in the budgets of proposed research projects; such costs will be borne from funds previously awarded under the Program
as part of a conference grant. Additionally, a final project report on research results will be required in a fixed
protocol, electronic format, suitable for distribution by USDA on CD-ROM.
Applicable Regulations
This Program is subject to the administrative provisions found in 7 CFR part 3415 (58 FR 65646, December 15, 1993),
which set forth procedures to be followed when submitting grant proposals, rules governing the evaluation of proposals,
the awarding of grants, and post-award administration of such grants. Several other Federal statutes and regulations
apply to grant proposals considered for review or to grants awarded under this Program. These include, but are not
limited to: 
7 CFR Part 1.1_USDA implementation of the Freedom of Information Act;
7 CFR Part 1c_USDA implementation of the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects;
7 CFR Part 3_USDA implementation of OMB Circular A-129 regarding debt collection;
7 CFR Part 15_Subpart A_USDA implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964;
7 CFR Part 520_ARS implementation of the National Environmental Policy Act;
7 CFR Part 3015_USDA Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations, implementing OMB directives (i.e., Circular Nos.
A-110, A-21, and A-122), and incorporating provisions of 31 U.S.C. 6301-6308 (formerly,
the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act of 1977, Pub. L. 95-224), as well as general policy requirements
applicable to recipients of Departmental financial assistance;
7 CFR Part 3016_USDA Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local
Governments;
7 CFR Part 3017 as amended_USDA implementation of Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and
Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants);
7 CFR Part 3018_USDA implementation of New Restrictions on Lobbying. Imposes new prohibitions and requirements
for disclosure and certification related to lobbying on recipients of Federal contracts, grants, cooperative agreements,
and loans;
7 CFR Part 3051_Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Institutions;
7 CFR Part 3407_CSRS implementation of the National Environmental Policy Act; 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
