<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940112-2-00145 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940112-2-00100 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
Regional Linkages Projects
Project Objective
The purpose of Regional Linkage projects is to support inter-state or multi-state partnerships that will expand
the scope and enhance the effectiveness of technical assistance services regionally available to small and medium-sized
manufacturers. Project may be assistance service-led, or industry-led partnerships to provide assistance services
that cross institutional and political boundaries. Assistance service-led partnerships, for example, can include
shared assistance services that cross state boundaries, or electronic networking. Industry-led partnerships
can include linkage activities between original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and suppliers, creating a multi-state
network of suppliers, program planning for multi-state assistance delivery, or other activities that improve the
interactions between manufacturers.
Regional Projects Evaluation Criteria
Proposals from applicants will be evaluated and rated on the basis of the following criteria by an impartial competitive
review panel. Each proposal should address all six selection criteria and selection criteria 1-4 will be weighted
more heavily than criteria 5-6. Selection will be based upon total evaluation score as well as geographical
distribution.
1. 
Target population (20 points): 
Potential applicants will be required to identify a population of beneficiary companies (the target population)
and their technology-related assistance needs in the proposed service area. Factors that will be considered include:
(a) A clear definition of the target population, its size and demographic characteristics.
(b) Demonstrated understanding of the target population's assistance needs, eg. technology, training, information,
quality improvement, management, etc.
(c) Appropriateness of the size of the target population and the anticipated impact for the proposed expenditures.
2. 
Delivery mechanisms (20 points): 
Applicants will need to specify the mechanism for delivery of services to the population of beneficiary companies
(the target population). Facts that will be considered include:
(a) Appropriateness and effectiveness of proposed delivery mechanism for meeting the identified needs of the target
population.
(b) Demonstration of capacity to form effective linkages and partnerships with other appropriate service providers.
(c) Technical quality of the proposed approach, including knowledge and use of best industrial modernization practices.
3. 
Coordination with existing resources (20 points): 
Applicants will need to describe how they will coordinate with existing or newly-formed technology/industrial
assistance services and resources that will allow for increased economies of scale and complementary capabilities,
and will avoid duplication of efforts in providing assistance to small and medium-sized manufacturers. It will be
important to show how the proposed approach can reach across political or institutional boundaries to provide access
to services. Factors that will be considered include:
(a) Demonstrated understanding of existing organizations and resources relevant for providing technology assistance
related services to the target population.
(b) Strength of plans to establish and maintain linkages and partnerships with existing organizations (particularly
across state boundaries), and a clear definition of those organizations' roles in the proposed activities.
(c) Proposed activity does not duplicate existing services or resources.
(d) Consistency with comprehensive state plans if such plans exist.
4. 
Program evaluation (20 points): 
The applicant should specify plans for evaluation of the effectiveness of the proposed program and for ensuring continuous
improvement of program activities. Factors that will be considered include:
(a) Thoroughness of evaluation plans, including internal evaluation for management control, external evaluation
for assessing outcomes of the activity, and "customer satisfaction" measures of performance.
(b) Plans for the documentation, analysis for the results, and how the results can be used in program development.
5. 
Financial plan (10 points): 
Applicants should show that relevance and cost effectiveness of the financial plan for meeting the objectives of
the project; the firmness and level of the applicant's total financial support for the project; and the plan to maintain
the program after the cooperative agreement has expired. Factors that will be considered include:
</TEXT>
</DOC>
