<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940106-0-00170 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940106-0-00022 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
 (
2
) Whether the person or individual failed or caused another to fail to disclose a material fact, in connection with
an application for TAA that resulted in the overpayment, and whether the person or individual knew or should have known
that the fact was material. 
(
3
) Whether the person or individual knew or could have been expected to know, that the person or individual was not entitled
to the TAA payment. 
(
4
) Whether, for any other reason, the overpayment resulted directly or indirectly, and partially or totally, from
any act or omission of the person or individual or of which the person or individual had knowledge, and which was erroneous
or inaccurate or otherwise wrong. 
(
5
) Whether there has been a determination of fraud under paragraph (b) of this section or section 243 of the Act. 
(B) An affirmative finding on any one of the factors in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section precludes waiver of
overpayment recovery. 
(ii)(A) In determining whether equity and good conscience exists for purposes of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section,
the following factors shall be considered: 
(
1
) Whether the overpayment was the result of a decision on appeal, whether the State agency had given notice to the person
or individual that the case has been appealed and that the person or individual may be required to repay the overpayment
in the event of a reversal on appeal, and whether recovery of the overpayment will not cause extraordinary and lasting
financial hardship to the person or individual. 
(
2
) Whether recovery of the overpayment will not cause extraordinary financial hardship to the person or individual,
and there has been no affirmative finding under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section with respect to such person
or individual and such overpayment. 
(B) An affirmative finding on either of the foregoing factors in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section precludes
waiver of overpayment recovery. 
(C)(
1
) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, an extraordinary financial hardship shall exist if recovery
of the overpayment would result directly in the person's or individual's loss of or inability to obtain minimal necessities
of food, medicine, and shelter for a substantial period of time; and an extraordinary and lasting financial hardship
shall be extraordinary as described above and may be expected to endure for the foreseeable future. 
(
2
) In applying this test in the case of attempted recovery by repayment, a substantial period of time shall be 30 days,
and the foreseeable future shall be at least three months. In applying this test in the case of proposed recoupment
from other benefits, a substantial period of time and the foreseeable future shall be the longest potential period
of benefit entitlement as seen at the time of the request for a waiver determination. In making these determinations,
the State agency shall take into account all potential income of the person or individual and the person's or individual's
firm, organization, or family and all cash resources available or potentially available to the person or individual
and the person's or individual's firm, organization, or family in the time period being considered. 
(
3
) Determinations granting or denying waivers of overpayments shall be made only on request for a waiver determination.
Such request shall be made on a form which shall be furnished to the person or individual by the State agency. Notices
of determination of overpayments shall include an accurate description of the waiver provisions of paragraph (a)
of this section, if the State agency has elected to allow waivers of TAA overpayments. 
(
4
) Each State shall have the option to establish a policy as to whether the waiver provisions of this section shall be
applied to TAA overpayments. A State's decision on its policy shall not be controlled by whether it waives UI overpayments,
but the State's decision shall be published for the information of the public and the Department. 
(
5
)(i) Unless an overpayment is otherwise recovered, or is waived under paragraph (a) of this section, the State agency
shall recover the overpayment by deduction from any sums payable to such person or individual under: 
(A) This part 617; 
(B) Any Federal unemployment compensation law administered by the State agency; or 
(C) Any other Federal law administered by the State agency which provides for the payment of unemployment assistance
or an allowance with respect to unemployment. 
(ii) In addition, a State agency may recover the overpayment from unemployment insurance payable to such person or
individual under the State law. 
(b) 
Fraud. 
If a State agency or a court of competent jurisdiction finds that any person or individual: 
(1) Knowingly has made, or caused another to make, a false statement or representation of a material fact; or 
(2) Knowingly has failed, or caused another to fail, to disclose a material fact; and as a result of such false statement
or representation, or of such nondisclosure, such individual has received any payment under this part 617 to which
the person or individual was not entitled, such person or individual shall, in addition to any other penalty provided
by law, be ineligible for any further payments under this part 617. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
