<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940128-2-00016 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940128-2-00005 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
DOC Position: 
We agree with petitioners. In cases where a parent company is an investment holding company, it is the Department's
practice to allocate a portion of G&A expenses incurred by the parent company to the respondent under the theory
that the parent's G&A expenses are incurred on behalf of the parent's investment holdings. (See, e.g., Final
Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Ferrosilicon from Venezuela (58 FR 27524, May 10, 1993).) Since there
is no verified information on the record to support KT's claim that all G&A expenses incurred by KT's parent for
the benefit of KT were already charged to KT and included in the submitted G&A calculation, we adjusted KT's G&A
to include a proportional amount of its parent's administrative costs based on KT's parent's stock ownership of KT.
Additionally, we revised KT's G&A expense computation to include the omitted amortization of pre-operating
expenses as recorded on the company's financial statements, as well as to correct for a clerical error found at verification.
Comment 6: 
Petitioners claim that the production yields reported by KT are inaccurate and unrealistic and cannot be relied upon
by the Department for its final determination. 
KT argues that production yields are irrelevant because the costs used for the final determination are KT's actual
material expenses, not standard costs. Thus, KT maintains that whether or not the production yield used under the
standard cost system is accurate is irrelevant to the Department's analysis. 
DOC Position: 
The apparent unrealistic production yields appear to be generated from KT's usage of theoretical production weights.
Since this same theoretical weight was used to convert production costs from a unit of weight basis to a unit of length
basis, the effect of the apparent unrealistic yield rate is offset. (See, Comment 4, above.) Therefore, no adjustment
was deemed necessary for the final determination. 
Comment 7: 
Petitioners contend that the stainless steel coil costs KT used in its original response were not consistent with
information on the coil invoices obtained by the Department at verification and, moreover, were inconsistent with
the coil costs reported by KT in its second cost questionnaire response. Petitioners argue that the Department, therefore,
should reject the stainless steel coil costs reported by KT. 
KT argues that petitioners' claim that KT reported inconsistent stainless steel costs is incorrect. KT asserts that
petitioners are basing this claim on a comparison of non-comparable figures. Specifically, KT states that the figures
taken from Exhibit 16 of its original cost response are net of all adjustments for work in process, exchange gains,
and scrap expense and revenue, whereas the figures in the second response include these expenses. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
