<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940110-1-00027 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940110-1-00004 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
D. Ratemaking Principles
The above-stated policies, as set forth by statute and more fully developed by OMB and the Department, comport with
reasonable standards for user charges and are strongly supported by the prescriptions of economic experts with widely
recognized credentials in the field of ratemaking policy. Any other approach would burden taxpayers with costs that
can be traced directly to the needs of specific individuals, not to society at large.
One of many similar statements on cost of service as a basic standard of reasonableness is stated as follows in the authoritative
text by Bonbright, Danielsen, and Kamerschen:
No writer whose views on public utility rates command respect purports to find a single yardstick by sole reference
to which rates may be judged reasonable or socially desirable as distinguished from rates that are unreasonable or
adverse to the public interest. A complex of tests of acceptability is required just as would be the case with the tests
of a good automobile, a good income-tax law, or a good poem. Nevertheless, one standard of reasonable rates can fairly
be said to outrank all others in the importance attached to it by experts and public opinion alike_the standard of costs
of service, often qualified by the stipulation that the relevant cost is necessary, true (i.e., private and social)
cost or cost reasonably or prudently incurred.* * *
A cost standard of ratemaking has been most generally accepted in the regulation of the levels of rates charged by private
utility companies. But even more significant is the widespread adherence to cost, or to some approximation of cost,
as a basis of ratemaking under public ownership* * * *
Bonbright, Danielsen, and Kamerschen, Principles of Public Utility Rates, Public Utilities Reports, Inc., Arlington,
Va., 2nd ed. 1988, pp. 109-110.
While the foregoing reference is extracted from a discussion of public utility rates, the rate standard cited also
is applicable to other pricing situations that require cost recovery in a fair and reasonable manner.
III. Examinations Fee Account
This section describes the major programs funded by the Examinations Fee Account.
A. Adjudications and Naturalization Program
The function of this program is to process, adjudicate, and ultimately grant or deny applications and petitions for
benefits provided under the immigration laws of the United States. Adjudications activities include processing
applications for permanent resident status, petitions for relatives, temporary and permanent worker petitions,
reentry permits, refugee travel documents, extensions of temporary stay, employment authorizations, and temporary
protected status. Naturalization activities include the examination of aliens to determine their qualifications
for naturalization, administration of the oath for citizenship, and issuance of citizenship documents.
B. Refugees and Overseas Program
The function of this program is to adjudicate refugee and asylum applications, conduct investigations for preference
and relative visa petitions, and conduct other records checks and background investigations as are required at overseas
INS offices. Officers assigned to this program also provide assistance to citizens and lawful permanent residents
abroad regarding adoptions, immigration, or parole of alien spouses and children, and other benefits under the Immigration
and Nationality Act. They also review requests for the Attorney General to grant humanitarian parole into the United
States for deserving persons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
