<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940112-2-00127 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940112-2-00091 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
(2) a signed proxy indicating the number of shares held for such beneficial owner and bearing a symbol identifying
the proxy records of such member organization, and also a letter informing the beneficial owner 
or the beneficial owner's designated investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 who
exercises investment discretion pursuant to an advisory contract for such beneficial owner,
 of the necessity for completing the proxy form and forwarding it to the person soliciting proxies in order that the
shares may be represented at the meeting. 
This rule shall not apply to beneficial owners outside the United States. 
. . . Supplementary Material: 
.10 Annual reports to be transmitted._The annual report shall be transmitted to beneficial owners 
or to beneficial owners' designated investment advisers registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 who
exercise investment discretion pursuant to an advisory contract for such beneficial owners
 under the same conditions as those applying to proxy soliciting material under Rule 451 even though it is not proxy-soliciting
material under the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
.60 Duty to transmit even when requested not to._The proxy material must be sent to a beneficial owner even though such
owner has instructed the member organization not to do so, 
unless the beneficial owner has instructed the member organization in writing to send such material to a designated
investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 who exercises investment discretion pursuant
to an advisory contract for such beneficial owner. 
Rule 452 Giving Proxies by Member Organization 
Voting procedure without instructions 
A member organization which has transmitted proxy soliciting material to the beneficial owner of stock or to an investment
adviser registered under the Investment Adviser Act of 1940 who exercises investment discretion pursuant to an advisory
contract for the beneficial owner and has been designated in writing by the beneficial owner of such stock to receive
soliciting material in lieu of the beneficial owner
 and solicited voting instructions in accordance with the provisions of Rule 451 [&para;2451], and which has not received
instructions from the beneficial owner 
or from such designated registered investment adviser
 by the date specified in the statement accompanying such material, may give or authorize the giving of a proxy to vote
such stock, provided the person in the member organization giving or authorizing the giving of the proxy has no knowledge
of any contest as to the action to be taken at the meeting and provided such action is adequately disclosed to stockholders
and does not include authorization for a merger, consolidation or any other matter which may affect substantially
the rights or privileges of such stock. 
. . . Supplementary Material: 
Giving a Proxy To Vote Stock 
.10 When member organization may vote without customer instructions._Rule 452, above, provides that a member organization
may give a proxy to vote stock provided that: 
(1) It has transmitted proxy soliciting material to the beneficial owner of stock 
or to an investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 who exercises investment discretion
pursuant to an advisory contract for the beneficial owner and has been designated by the beneficial owner to receive
such material
 in accordance with Rule 451 [&para;2451], and 
(2) it has not received voting instructions from the beneficial owner 
or from the beneficial owner's designated investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
who exercises investment discretion pursuant to an advisory contract for such beneficial owner,
 by the date specified in the statement accompanying such material, and 
(3) [No change in text] 
Transmission of Interim Reports and Other Material 
Rule 465. A member organization, when so requested by a company, and upon being furnished with: 
(1) copies of interim reports of earnings or other material being sent to stockholders, and 
(2) satisfactory assurance that it will be reimbursed by such company for all out-of-pocket expenses, including
reasonable clerical expenses, shall transmit such reports or material to each beneficial owner of stock of such company
held by such member organization and registered in the name other than the name of the beneficial owner 
unless the beneficial owner has instructed the member organization in writing to transmit such reports or material
to a designated investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 who exercises investment
discretion pursuant to an advisory contract for such beneficial owner. 
II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change
In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose
of, and basis for, the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The
text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization
has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements.
A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change
1. Purpose 
The purpose of the proposed rule amendments is to provide beneficial owners of stock with the ability to have investment
advisers registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 who exercise investment discretion for their account(s)
pursuant to an advisory contract and who have been designated in writing by the beneficial owners to receive proxy
materials and to vote proxies on behalf of such beneficial owners. The proposed rule amendments will also allow the
designated registered investment advisers to receive annual reports and other related material. This would include
both member organizations of the NYSE and other entities registered as investment advisers. 
Currently, Exchange rules prohibit a member organization from voting proxies, on a discretionary basis, on securities
held in its custody unless the securities are beneficially owned by the member organization, the beneficial owner
has failed to provide the member organization with voting instructions and the subject of the vote is nonsubstantive,
or the member organization is the investment manager for an ERISA account. 
Further, Exchange rules require transmission of proxy and related issuer materials, as well as proxy voting instructions,
to each beneficial owner of stock held in the member organization's possession and control. Rule 451.60 explicitly
requires that proxy material be sent to a beneficial owner even though such owner has instructed the member organization
not to do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
