<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940128-1-00012 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940128-1-00006 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
C. The Principal Hazards 
The most notable seafood-related hazards involve the 
following: 
1. Bacteria 
Because bacteria either naturally live in, or can survive 
in, aquatic habitats, there are a large number of pathogenic 
bacteria that can be found in seafood, particularly molluscan 
shellfish. Many of these bacteria are far more harmful to 
specific human subpopulations, such as the elderly, 
immunocompromised, or persons with specific underlying diseases, 
than to the population as a whole. The size of these 
subpopulations is increasing, however. Therefore, concerns about 
bacterial contamination of seafood, particularly molluscan 
shellfish, are increasing. 
In the United States, 4.4 percent of botulism outbreaks have 
been attributed to seafood. The predominant type of botulism 
organism in aquatic environments is the kind most readily 
destroyed by heat. Thus, many types of processing, if done 
properly, can negate the risk of botulism from seafood. 
Nonetheless, with the trend toward greater use of modified 
atmosphere and vacuum packaging (i.e., packaging that excludes 
oxygen) to enhance the shelf life and the desirability of 
refrigerated foods, traditional controls need to be enhanced 
because 
Clostridium botulinum
 can grow in the absence of oxygen. 
Other bacteria of concern include 
Listeria monocytogenes,
 a 
hazardous foodborne microorganism that is ubiquitous in nature 
and is commonly found in food processing environments; 
Salmonella,
 which is not a marine organism but can contaminate 
seafood through improper handling and sanitation practices; and 
Staphylococcus aureus,
 another pathogen associated with 
sanitation and handling (Ref. 8, pp. 14 and 15). 
2. Viruses 
Several viruses that are infectious to humans enter aquatic 
habitats through sewage. These viruses can concentrate in 
shellfish and be present and infective even when bacterial 
indicators of fecal pollution are absent. Viruses probably cause 
the bulk of seafood-associated disease, particularly the Norwalk 
and Norwalk-like agents, which are linked to the consumption of 
contaminated raw or undercooked molluscan shellfish (Ref. 7, p. 
30). 
3. Natural Toxins 
Problems associated with naturally occurring toxins in fish 
have been recognized for centuries. Ciguatera poisoning is 
perhaps the most significant problem associated with a natural 
toxin. The toxin is produced by microscopic organisms and can be 
transmitted to humans through the consumption of finfish that 
have eaten these organisms through the food chain (Ref. 7, p. 
89). The larger, more predacious fish (groupers, snappers, 
barracuda, amberjack) and reef fish belonging to the crevally or 
ulua (Carangidae) family are generally more likely to contain 
ciguatoxin than other types of fish (Ref. 7, p. 89). Because the 
toxin is heat stable, cooking does not make the fish safe to eat 
(Ref. 9, p. 1). 
On average, 70 cases of ciguatera poisoning are reported 
annually in the United States and its possessions and territories 
(Ref. 7, p. 89). Deaths are rare, and the acute symptoms of the 
disease are usually of short duration; however, neurological 
symptoms can persist for extended periods. Ciguatera is 
geographically localized, with the majority of illnesses reported 
from tropical or subtropical areas. 
Other toxins of public health concern include domoic acid, 
which was detected in seafood from the U.S. Pacific coast for the 
first time in the fall and winter of 1991-1992 (Ref. 10, 
p. 1,113); and saxitoxin, or paralytic shellfish poison, which 
has periodically made molluscan bivalves toxic and has recently 
affected Pacific Northwest crab harvests (Ref. 11). 
4. Parasites 
Parasites, such as anasakid nematodes (round worms), 
naturally infect certain fish and ocean mammals (Ref. 12, p. 
724). Human parasitic infections almost always occur from the 
consumption of raw (sushi, sashimi) or undercooked fish. 
Historically, probably no more than five cases are reported on 
average in the United States each year and the likelihood of 
occurrence is estimated to be very low (Ref. 5, p. 25). Problems 
with parasites are avoidable through commercial freezing of the 
raw fish before consumption. 
5. Chemical Contaminants 
The presence of toxic chemicals in the aquatic environment 
creates the potential for contamination of seafood products. 
These chemicals include pesticides; other industrial chemicals, 
such as polychlorinated biphenyls; heavy metals, such as lead, 
cadmium, and mercury; and petroleum hydrocarbons. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
