<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940106-0-00125 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940106-0-00022 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
Clauses (2) through (5) of Sect.617.15(d) are renumbered (3) through (6). 
G. Revision of Sect.617.16
Section 234 of the Trade Act of 1974 specifies the State law provisions that shall be applicable to claimants for TRA
purposes, and Sect.617.16 distills the provisions of section 234 in a definition of "applicable State law." Section
617.16 is now being revised for two essential reasons. The first reason is to include in the definition the situation
of the worker who is not entitled to UI after separation from adversely affected employment, as is provided for in Section
234. This had not seemed relevant after the 1981 Amendments, because of the addition in section 231(a)(3) of the eligibility
requirement that the worker must be entitled to and have exhausted all UI. The 1988 Amendments, however, have prompted
rethinking of the roles and responsibilities of the States in the administration of the TAA program, and particularly
of the role of the "applicable State" (i.e., the State whose law is the applicable State law) in the case of TAA program
benefits other than TRA. Accordingly, the definition of "applicable State law" is broadened so that it is a useful
reference point for all TAA program benefits. While providing a useful reference point, there is no intent in revising
Sect.617.16 to suggest that an individual who is not entitled to UI after a qualifying separation from adversely
affected employment may be entitled to TRA. 
The second reason for revising Sect.617.16 is to conform 
Sect.617.16 to the revision of Sect.617.26, relating to the roles and responsibilities of the States as liable
States and agent States in the administration of the TAA program. As discussed below, Sect.617.26 is revised to incorporate
the Department's thinking as set out in Change 2 to GAL 15-90. In this connection, consideration was given to
including in Sect.617.16 the definition of "applicable State" which is set forth in Change 2. Upon further consideration,
however, it was decided that the definition of "applicable State law" furnished the most useful reference point
for all purposes of the TAA program, and that a special definition of "applicable State" is neither necessary nor
useful. 
Accordingly, Sect.617.16 is revised to track more closely Section 234, and to serve as a useful reference point for
all of the purposes of the TAA program. The section also is modified to make it clear that the UI entitlement referred
to is that which immediately follows a qualifying separation from adversely affected employment, and not UI entitlement
in some past period, however recent or remote it may have been. 
H. Revision of Sect.617.19(b)(1)(i)(B) and (b)(2)(ii)(A)
Clause (A) of Sect.617.19(b)(2)(ii) explains that training is not appropriate when the firm from which the individual
was separated plans to recall the individual within the "reasonably foreseeable future". Also, Sect.617.19(b)(1)(i)(B)
defines "appropriate" as including whether there is a reasonable prospect which is reasonably foreseeable that
the individual will be reemployed by the separating firm. These provisions are consistent with Sect.617.22(a)(1)(ii)
on conditions for approval of training when there is reasonable prospect of suitable work within the foreseeable
future. (See item 43 below.) 
While it is reasonable to deny training under Sect.617.22 (a) to a worker who is scheduled for recall, there is an identified
need to provide additional guidance in the regulations on the application of the term "recall that will occur in the
reasonably foreseeable future", for purposes of administering Sect.Sect.617.19(b)(1)(i)(B) and (b)(2)(ii)(A).
These regulations are consistent with the Administration's position to tighten waivers. Publication of these regulations
will improve efficiency in utilizing waivers. This moves the current TAA program in to closer alignment with the Transitional
Adjustment Assistance provisions of NAFTA. Therefore, this section is being amended by adding a new clause (
2
) to Sect.Sect.617.19(b)(2)(ii)(A), for use in approving training and granting waivers. Clause (
2
) provides guidance on two types of planned recalls. The first type is a specific recall where an individual or group
of individuals who was separated from employment is identified and notified by the employer to return to work within
a specified time period. In this situation an individual would not be approved for training and a waiver of the training
requirement would be granted for purposes of receiving basic TRA. 
The second type is a general recall where the employer announces an intention to recall an individual or group of individuals,
or by other action reasonably signals an intent to recall, but does not specify a certain time period in which the recall
will occur. In this situation, if the recall in each individual case is reasonably expected to occur after the individual
would exhaust his or her eligibility for regular UI associated with the most recent total separation that is within
the TAA certification period, the individual would be treated as any other individual who was separated from adversely
affected employment and the participation in training requirement would be applied. 
I. Revision of Sect.617.21
Section 617.21 describes the activities that are included as reemployment services and allowances. Paragraph (e)
of this section is revised to add child care as a support service. This revision is made to eliminate any uncertainty
that child care is a support service and that the costs for such service may not be charged as a related cost of training
and paid with TAA program funds. See also the Department's response to item 47 below. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
