<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940106-0-00168 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940106-0-00022 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
(a)
 Conditions.
 * * * 
(4) A determination by the State agency that the individual has no reasonable expectation of securing suitable employment
in the commuting area, and has a reasonable expectation of obtaining suitable employment of long-term duration outside
the commuting area and in the area where the job search will be conducted. For the purposes of this section, the term
"suitable employment" means suitable work as defined in Sect.617.3(kk) (1) or (2), whichever is applicable to
the individual; and 
* * * * * 
21. Section 617.33 is revised to read as follows: 
Sect.617.33 
Findings required. 
(a) 
Findings by liable State.
 Before final payment of a job search allowance may be approved, the following findings shall be made by the liable State:
(1) The individual meets the eligibility requirements for a job search allowance specified in Sect.617.32(a) (1)
through (4); 
(2) The application for a job search allowance was submitted by the individual within the time limits specified in
Sect.617.31(c); and 
(3) The individual completed the job search within the time limits stated in Sect.617.32(a)(5), and the requirements
of paragraphs (b) and (c) of Sect.617.32 have been met. 
(b) 
Agent State.
 (1) When an individual files an application for a job search allowance with respect to a job search conducted in a State
other than the liable State, the State agency of the State in which the individual conducts the job search shall serve
as the agent State and be responsible for assisting the individual in conducting the job search and in filing an application
for a job search allowance with the liable State, and for assisting the liable State by furnishing to it any information
required for the liable State's determination of the claim. 
(2) The agent State shall cooperate fully with the liable State in carrying out its activities and functions with regard
to such applications. 
22. Paragraph (b) of Sect.617.34 is revised to read as follows: 
Sect.617.34 
Amount. 
* * * * * 
(b) 
Limit.
 The total job search allowances paid to an individual under a certification may not exceed $800, regardless of the
number of job searches undertaken by the individual. The amounts otherwise payable under paragraph (a) of this section
shall be reduced by any amounts the individual is entitled to be paid or reimbursed for such expenses from any other
source. 
23. Section 617.42(a)(6) is revised to read as follows: 
Sect.617.42 
Eligibility. 
(a) 
Conditions.
 * * *
(6) A determination by the State agency that the individual has no reasonable expectation of securing suitable employment
in the commuting area, and has obtained suitable employment affording a reasonable expectation of employment of
long-term duration, or a bona fide offer of such suitable employment, outside the commuting area and in the area of
intended relocation. For the purposes of this section, the term "suitable employment" means suitable work as defined
in Sect.617.3(kk) (1) and (2), whichever is applicable to the individual; and 
* * * * * 
24. Section 617.44 is revised to read as follows: 
Sect.617.44 
Findings required. 
(a) 
Findings by liable State.
 Before final payment of a relocation allowance may be approved, the following findings shall be made by the liable
State: 
(1) The individual meets the eligibility requirements for a relocation allowance specified in Sect.617.42(a)
(1) to (6) and Sect.617.42(b). 
(2) The application for a relocation allowance was submitted by the individual within the time limits specified in
Sect.617.41(c); 
(3) The individual began and completed the relocation within the limitations specified in Sect.617.42(a)(7) and
Sect.617.43; and 
(4) The liable State has verified (directly or through the agent State) with the employer, and finds, that the individual
has obtained suitable employment affording a reasonable expectation of employment of long-term duration, or a bona
fide offer of such suitable employment, in the area of intended relocation, in accordance with Sect.617.42(a)(6).
(b) 
Agent State.
 (1) When an individual relocates in a State other than the liable State, the State agency of the State in which the individual
relocates shall serve as the agent State and be responsible for: 
(i) Assisting the individual in relocating to the State, and in filing an application for a relocation allowance with
the liable State, and 
(ii) Assisting the liable State by furnishing to it any information required for the liable State's determination
on the claim. 
(2) The agent State shall cooperate with the liable State in carrying out its activities and functions with regard
to such applications. When requested by the liable State, the agent State shall verify with the employer and report
to the liable State whether the individual has obtained suitable employment affording a reasonable expectation
of employment of long-term duration, or a bona fide offer of such suitable employment. 
25. Section 617.49 is amended by adding a new paragraph (e) to read as follows: 
Sect.617.49 
Job search program. 
* * * * * 
(e) 
Termination of requirement.
 The job search program requirement set out in this section shall not be a condition of entitlement to TRA for any week
which begins after November 20, 1988. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
