<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940118-1-00025 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940118-1-00006 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
(f) 
Service. 
In all filings with a CARP or the Librarian of Congress, a copy shall be served upon counsel of all other parties identified
in the service list, or, if the party is unrepresented by counsel, upon the party itself. Proof of service shall accompany
the filing with the Panel or the Copyright Office. If a party files a pleading that requests or would require action
by the Panel or the Librarian within 10 or fewer days after the filing, it must serve the pleading upon all other counsel
or parties by means no slower than overnight express mail on the same day the pleading is filed. 
Sect.251.45 
Discovery and prehearing motions. 
(a) 
Precontroversy exchange of documents and discovery. 
In the case of a royalty fee distribution proceeding, the Librarian of Congress shall, after the time period for filing
claims and before publication of the notice initiating an arbitration proceeding under 17 U.S.C. 803, designate
a period for precontroversy exchange and discovery of nonprivileged underlying documents related to the proceeding.
In the case of rate adjustment proceedings, the period for precontroversy exchange and discovery of documents shall
correspond with the 90-day period specified in Sect.251.63. 
(b) 
Precontroversy motions and objections. 
During the time periods specified in Sect.251.45(a), as appropriate, any party to the proceeding may file with the
Librarian of Congress motions regarding precontroversy exchange of documents or discovery, objections to any party's
royalty claim or petition, or motions for procedural or evidentiary rulings, on any proper ground. Any party to the
proceeding wishing to file a response to such motion or objection may do so within 14 days. The Librarian, upon recommendation
of the Register of Copyrights, shall rule on the motion or objection prior to the declaration of a controversy and initiation
of an arbitration proceeding. 
(c) 
Discovery and motions filed with a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel. 
(1) A Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel shall designate a period following the filing of the written direct and
rebuttal cases in which parties may request of an opposing party nonprivileged underlying documents related to the
written exhibits and testimony. 
(2) After the filing of the written cases, any party may file with a CARP objections to any portion of another party's
written case on any proper ground including, without limitation, relevance, competency, and failure to provide
underlying documents. If an objection is apparent from the face of a written case, that objection must be raised or
the party may thereafter be precluded from raising such an objection. 
(d) 
Amended filings and discovery. 
In the case of objections filed with either the Librarian of Congress or a CARP, each party may amend its claim, petition,
written case, or direct evidence to respond to the objections raised by other parties, or to the requests of either
the Librarian or a Panel. Such amendments must be properly filed with the Librarian or the CARP, wherever appropriate,
and exchanged with all parties. All parties shall be given a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery on the amended
filings. 
Sect.251.46 
Conduct of hearings: Role of arbitrators. 
(a) At the opening of a hearing conducted by a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel, the chairperson shall announce
the subject under consideration. 
(b) Only the arbitrators of a CARP, or counsel as provided in this chapter, shall question witnesses. 
(c) Subject to the vote of the CARP, the chairperson shall have responsibility for: 
(1) Setting the order of presentation of evidence and appearance of witnesses: 
(2) Administering oaths and affirmations to all witnesses; 
(3) Announcing the Panel's ruling on objections and motions and all rulings with respect to introducing or excluding
documentary or other evidence. In all cases, whether there are an even or odd number of arbitrators sitting at the hearing,
it takes a majority vote to grant a motion or sustain an objection. A split vote will result in the denial of the motion
or the overruling of the objection; 
(4) Regulating the course of the proceedings and the decorum of the parties and their counsel, and insuring that the
proceedings are fair and impartial; and 
(5) Announcing the schedule of subsequent hearings. 
(d) Each arbitrator may examine any witness or call upon any party for the production of additional evidence at any
time. Further examination, cross-examination, or redirect examination by counsel relevant to the inquiry initiated
by an arbitrator may be allowed by a Panel, but only to the limited extent that it is directly responsive to the inquiry
of the arbitrator. 
Sect.251.47 
Conduct of hearings: Witnesses and counsel. 
(a) With all due regard for the convenience of the witnesses, proceedings shall be conducted as expeditiously as possible.
(b) In each distribution or rate adjustment proceeding, each party may present its opening statement with the presentation
of its direct case. 
(c) All witnesses shall be required to take an oath or affirmation before testifying; however, attorneys who do not
appear as witnesses shall not be required to do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
