<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940119-1-00054 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940119-1-00013 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
2. In Sect.285.2, the definition of fork length 
is removed and definitions of 
curved fork length 
and 
straight fork length 
are added, in alphabetical order, to read as follows: 
Sect.285.2
Definitions. 
* * * * * 
Curved fork length 
means a measurement of the length of Atlantic bluefin tuna taken in a line tracing the contour of the body along the middle
of the lateral surface from the tip of the snout to the fork of the tail. 
* * * * * 
Straight fork length 
means a measurement of the length of Atlantic bluefin tuna taken in a straight line along the middle of the lateral surface
from a line perpendicular to the tip of the snout to a line perpendicular to the fork of the tail. 
* * * * * 
3. Section 285.22 is revised to read as follows: 
Sect.285.22
Quotas. 
The total annual (January 1-December 31) amount of Atlantic bluefin tuna that may be caught, retained, possessed
or landed by persons and vessels subject to U.S. jurisdiction in the regulatory area is subdivided as follows: 
(a) 
General. 
The total annual amount of large medium and giant Atlantic bluefin tuna that may be caught, retained, possessed or
landed in the regulatory area by vessels permitted in the General category under Sect.285.21(b) is 531 mt, of which
65 mt is set aside for a late-season fishery beginning 
September 15. On the basis of the statistics referenced at 
Sect.285.20(b)(1), the Assistant Administrator will project a date when the catch of Atlantic bluefin tuna will
equal the annual quota minus 65 mt, and will publish notification in the 
Federal Register
 stating that fishing for, retaining, possessing or landing Atlantic bluefin tuna under the early-season quota must
cease on that date at a specified hour, and not recommence until September 15, whereupon a quota equal to the difference
between the annual quota and the estimated catch prior to September 15 will become available. If the Assistant Administrator
determines (based on dealer reports, availability of large medium or giant Atlantic bluefin tuna on the fishing grounds,
and any other relevant information) that variations in seasonal distribution, abundance, or migration patterns
of Atlantic bluefin tuna, and the catch rate, may prevent fishermen in an identified area from harvesting their share
of the quota, the Assistant Administrator may set aside an allocation of the late-season quota for such area. The amount
of any allocation shall not exceed the greater of 20 mt or the maximum reported landings in the identified area in any
of the preceding 3 years. The Assistant Administrator will publish notification of any set-aside allocation and
its basis in the 
Federal Register
. The daily catch limit for the identified area will be set at one large medium or giant Atlantic bluefin tuna per day
per vessel. 
(b) 
Harpoon Boat. 
The total annual amount of large medium and giant Atlantic bluefin tuna that may be caught, retained, possessed or
landed in the regulatory area by vessels permitted in the Harpoon Boat category under Sect.285.21(b) is 53 mt. 
(c) 
Purse Seine. 
The total annual amount of large medium and giant Atlantic bluefin tuna that may be caught, retained, possessed or
landed in the regulatory area by vessels permitted in the Purse Seine category under Sect.285.21(b) is 301 mt. 
(d) 
Angling. 
The total annual amount of school, large school, and small medium Atlantic bluefin tuna that may be caught, retained,
possessed or landed in the regulatory area by anglers is 219 mt. No more than 99 mt of this quota may be school Atlantic
bluefin tuna. This quota is further subdivided as follows: 
(1) 47 mt of school Atlantic bluefin tuna may be caught, retained, possessed or landed south of 38
&cir;47
&rsquo; N. latitude. 
(2) 52 mt of school Atlantic bluefin tuna may be caught, retained, possessed or landed north of 38
&cir;47
&rsquo; N. latitude. 
(e) 
Incidental. 
The total annual amount of large medium and giant Atlantic bluefin tuna that may be caught, retained, possessed or
landed in the regulatory area by vessels permitted in the Incidental Catch category under Sect.285.21(b) is 113
mt. This quota is further subdivided as follows: 
(1) 109 mt for longline vessels. No more than 86 mt may be caught, retained, possessed, or landed in the area south of
34
&cir;00
&rsquo; N. latitude. 
(2) For vessels fishing under Sect.285.23 (a) and (d), 4 mt may be caught, retained, possessed, or landed in the regulatory
area. 
(f) 
Inseason adjustment amount. 
The total amount of Atlantic bluefin tuna that will be held in reserve for inseason adjustments is 18 mt. The Assistant
Administrator may allocate any portion (from 0 to 100 percent) of this amount to any category or categories of the fishery,
including research activities authorized under Sect.285.1(c). The Assistant Administrator will publish a notification
of allocation of any inseason adjustment amount in the 
Federal Register
 before such allocation is to become effective. Before making any such allocation, the Assistant Administrator will
consider the following factors: 
(1) The usefulness of information obtained from catches of the particular category of the fishery for biological
sampling and monitoring the status of the stock; 
(2) The catches of the particular gear segment to date and the likelihood of closure of that segment of the fishery if
no allocation is made; 
(3) The projected ability of the particular gear segment to harvest the additional amount of Atlantic bluefin tuna
before the anticipated end of the fishing season; and 
(4) The estimated amounts by which quotas established for other gear segments of the fishery might be exceeded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
