<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940111-2-00057 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940111-2-00028 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
4. For competitive renewal and supplemental applications, the progress made during the prior project period. For
new applications, (optional) the progress of preliminary studies pertinent to the application. 
5. The adequacy of the proposed research design, approaches, and methodology to carry out the research, including
quality assurance procedures, plan for data management, and statistical analysis plan. 
6. The extent to which the evaluation plan will allow for the measurement of progress toward the achievement of the
stated objectives. 
7. Qualifications, adequacy, and appropriateness of personnel to accomplish the proposed activities. 
8. The degree of commitment and cooperation of other interested parties (as evidenced by letters detailing the nature
and extent of the involvement). 
9. The reasonableness of the proposed budget to the proposed research and demonstration program. 
10. Adequacy of existing and proposed facilities and resources. 
B. The second review will be conducted by the Advisory Committee for Injury Prevention and Control. The factors to
be considered will include: 
1. The results of the peer review. 
2. The significance of the proposed activities in relation to the objectives stated in Injury Control in the 1990s:
A National Plan for Action. Atlanta: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1993; Healthy People 2000; Violence
in America: A Public Health Approach; Understanding and Preventing Violence; and Injury Prevention: Meeting the
Challenge. 
3. National needs. 
4. Overall distribution among: 
&bull;The major disciplines of violence-related injury prevention: social and behavioral sciences, and epidemiology;
&bull;Populations addressed (e.g., adolescents, minorities, the elderly, urban, rural); and 
5. Budgetary considerations (e.g., preference may be given to applicants who submit proposals requesting funding
for research projects of one to two years) . 
C. Continued funding. Continuation awards made after FY 1994, but within the project period, will be made on the basis
of the availability of funds and the following criteria: 
1. The accomplishments reflected in the progress report of the continuation application indicate that the applicant
is meeting previously stated objectives or milestones contained in the project's annual workplan and satisfactory
progress demonstrated through monitoring presentations or work-in-progress workshops; 
2. The objectives for the new budget period are realistic, specific, and measurable; 
3. The methods described will clearly lead to achievement of these objectives; 
4. The evaluation plan will allow management to monitor whether the methods are effective; and 
5. The budget request is clearly explained, adequately justified, reasonable and consistent with the intended use
of grant funds. 
D. Supplementary funding. Competing Supplemental grant awards may be made when funds are available, to support research
work or activities not previously approved by the Injury Research Grants Review Committee (IRGRC). Applications
should be clearly labelled to denote their status as requesting supplemental funding support. These applications
will be reviewed by the IRGRC and the secondary review group. 
Executive Order 12372 Review 
Applications are not subject to the review requirements of Executive Order 12372, entitled Intergovernmental Review
of Federal Programs. 
Public Health System Reporting Requirement 
This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
