<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940128-0-00031 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940128-0-00008 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
(b) 
Base year compensation limit.
 Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the Board will not pay unemployment benefits to
a qualified employee, with respect to his or her days of unemployment within a benefit year, in an amount greater than
the amount of his or her base year compensation, as computed under Sect.336.4 of this part. 
(c) 
Unemployment due to a strike.
 The limitations set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section also apply to an employee whose unemployment is
due to a stoppage of work because of a strike in the establishment, premises, or enterprise at which he was last employed.
But no unemployment benefits are payable for the employee's first 14 days of unemployment due to such stoppage of work.
Sect.336.3 
Duration of normal sickness benefits. 
The duration of normal sickness benefits is the same as the duration of normal unemployment benefits, as set forth
in 
Sect.336.2 of this part. A qualified employee who has satisfied the benefit year waiting period and is otherwise
eligible for sickness benefits may receive benefits for a maximum of 130 days of sickness within a benefit year, but
the amount paid as sickness benefits may not exceed the amount of the employee's base year compensation, as computed
under Sect.336.4 of this part. 
Sect.336.4 
Base year compensation. 
(a) 
Formula.
 For the purposes of this part, an employee's base year compensation includes any compensation in excess of the monthly
compensation base (as defined in part 302 of this chapter) for any month in the applicable base year but shall not include
any amount that exceeds the value of "X" in the following formula: X = $775(A/$600). In this formula, "A" is the
dollar amount of the monthly compensation base with respect to months in such base year. For example, if an employee
had railroad earnings of $1,500 per month in each of three months in base year 1990, the employee's base year compensation
for purposes of part 302 of this chapter would be $2,235 (three times the monthly compensation base of $745 per month
for months in 1990). But the employee's base year compensation for purposes of computing maximum normal unemployment
(or sickness) benefits under this subpart would be $2,886 (three times $962), and his or her normal unemployment (or
sickness) benefits would not be considered exhausted until he or she is paid unemployment (or sickness) benefits
in an amount equal to $2,886. In this example, $962 is the amount computed as the value of "X" in the above formula when
"A" is equal to $745. 
(b) 
Employer's duty to report.
 The base year employer(s) of an employee shall provide information as to the amount of an employee's monthly compensation
in excess of the monthly compensation base, as defined in part 302 of this chapter, unless the amount of the employee's
compensation at the monthly compensation base limit, as already reported to the Board, is equal to or greater than
an amount equal to 130 times the daily benefit rate applicable to the employee's days of unemployment or days of sickness.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0070.) 
Sect.336.5 
Notice to employee. 
The Board will notify an employee when it appears that his or her right to normal unemployment or normal sickness benefits
will be exhausted. Such notice will include information about the availability of extended benefits under subpart
B of this part if the employee has completed 10 years of railroad service and the availability of normal benefits for
the next ensuing benefit year if the employee is not eligible for extended benefits. 
Subpart B_Extended Benefits 
Sect.336.10 
Eligibility. 
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an employee may receive extended unemployment or extended
sickness benefits under this part if he or she: 
(1) Has exhausted normal unemployment or normal sickness benefits (as the case may be) under subpart A of this part;
(2) Has completed 10 years of railroad service, as set forth in Sect.336.13 of this part; and 
(3) Continues to have days of unemployment or days of sickness, as the case may be. 
(b) An employee is not eligible for extended sickness benefits if he or she has voluntarily retired or has attained
age 65. In the case of claims for unemployment benefits, an employee is not eligible for extended unemployment benefits
if he or she has voluntarily left work without good cause or has voluntarily retired. 
Sect.336.11 
Exhaustion of rights to normal unemployment benefits. 
For the purposes of this part, the Board considers that an employee has exhausted his or her current rights to normal
benefits for days of unemployment if: 
(a) The employee received unemployment benefits for 130 days of unemployment in the benefit year; or 
(b) The employee received unemployment benefits in the benefit year equal to the amount of his or her base year compensation;
or 
(c) At the end of a normal benefit year during which the employee was qualified for benefits, he or she received less
than the maximum unemployment benefits for the benefit year and he or she is not qualified for benefits in the next succeeding
benefit year. 
Sect.336.12 
Exhaustion of rights to normal sickness benefits. 
For the purposes of this part, the Board considers that an employee has exhausted his or her current rights to normal
benefits for days of sickness if: 
(a) The employee received sickness benefits for 130 days of sickness in the benefit year; or 
(b) The employee received sickness benefits in the benefit year equal to the amount of his or her base year compensation;
or 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
