<DOC>
<DOCNO> FR940106-0-00026 </DOCNO>
<PARENT> FR940106-0-00007 </PARENT>
<TEXT>
 
(b) All notices published in accord with Sect.295.7(a) shall include the amount of funds available, the approximate
number of awards, types of awards, closing dates, the name, address and telephone number of the contact person, a requirement
that proposals be submitted with a NIST Form 1262 (for single applicants), or NIST Form 1263 (for joint ventures),
and any other appropriate guidance.
(c) Notices issued under Sect.295.7(a) shall also state that awards under the Program shall be subject to all Federal
laws and Federal and Departmental regulations, policies and procedures applicable to financial assistance awards,
and shall require that funds awarded by the Program under subpart C (single applicants) shall be used only for direct
costs and not for indirect costs, profits, or management fees of the funding recipients. Notices shall also include
the notification that section 319 of Public Law 101-121 prohibits recipients of Federal contracts, grants,
and loans from using appropriated funds for lobbying the Executive or Legislative Branches of the Federal Government
in connection with a specific contract, grant, or loan.
12. Newly designated Sect.295.8 is revised to read as follows:
Sect.295.8
Intellectual property rights; Publication of research results.
(a)(1) 
Patent rights:
 Title to inventions arising from assistance provided by the Program must vest in a company or companies incorporated
in the United States. The United States may reserve a non-exclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable paid-up license
to practice or have practiced for or on behalf of the United Sates any such intellectual property, but shall not, in
the exercise of such license, publicly disclose proprietary information related to the license. Title to any such
intellectual property shall not be transferred or passed, except to a company incorporated in the United States,
until the expiration of the first patent obtained in connection with such intellectual property. Nothing in this
paragraph shall be construed to prohibit the licensing to any company of intellectual property rights arising from
assistance provided under this section.
(2) 
Patent procedures: 
Each award by the Program will contain procedures regarding reporting of inventions by the funding recipient to the
Program; determinations by the Program as to whether it will retain a governmental use license; march-in rights,
and other matters.
(b) 
Copyrights: 
Except as otherwise specifically provided for in an Award, funding recipients under the Program may establish claim
to copyright subsisting in any data first produced in the performance of the award. When claim is made to copyright,
the funding recipient shall affix the applicable copyright notice of 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402 and acknowledgment of Government
sponsorship to the data when and if the data are delivered to the Government, are published, or are deposited for registration
as a published work in the U.S. Copyright Office. The funding recipient shall grant to the Government, and others acting
on its behalf, a paid up, nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license for all such data to reproduce, prepare derivative
works, perform publicly and display publicly, and for data other than computer software to distribute to the public
by or on behalf of the Government.
(c) 
Publication of research results: 
The decision on whether or not to publish research results will be made by the funding recipient(s). Unpublished intellectual
property owned and developed by any business or joint research and development venture receiving funding or by any
member of such a joint venture may not be disclosed by any officer or employee of the Federal Government except in accordance
with a written agreement between the owner or developer and the Program. The licenses granted to the Government under
Sect.295.8(b) shall not be considered a waiver of this requirement.
13. Section 295.14 is added to read as follows:
Sect.295.14
Special financial reporting requirements.
Each award by the Program shall contain procedures regarding financial reporting to ensure that awards are being
used in accordance with Office of Management and Budget Circular A-122_"Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations",
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) part 31_"Contract Cost Principles and Procedures", or other sound accounting
practices to be specified in the Cooperative Agreement. The audit principles to be applied to ATP awards are the Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) according to the General Accounting Office's "Government Auditing Standards"
subtitled "Standards for Auditing Government Organization, Program, Activities and Functions". Each award
will be subject to an Attestation Engagement (i.e., providing assurance on representations of compliance with statutory,
regulatory, and contractual requirements) or an audit in conjunction with the recipient's annual audit at least
every two years. In the interest of efficiency, the recipients are encouraged to retain their own independent CPA
firm to perform these services. The Department of Commerce's Office of Inspector General (OIG) reserves the right
to determine the time frame and/or level of service of financial audit reports that are to be delivered and to determine
how the close-out audit is to be conducted. The use of an independent CPA firm does not preclude the OIG's right to conduct
its own audit.
14. The heading for subpart B is revised to read as follows:
Subpart B_Assistance to United States Industry-Led Joint Research and Development Ventures
</TEXT>
</DOC>
